+++
title = "05 John Brockington"
date = "2021-04-27"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2021-April/054591.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2021-April/054591.html)

Dear Colleagues,

We are pleased to announce the fifth update of our material on the 
Oxford Research Archive, first deposited in January 2016; this update is 
identified as April 2021. We do so in order that it can be available for 
others to consult even in its present, unfinished state.It can be 
accessed at the same location 
<http://ora.ox.ac.uk/objects/uuid:8df9647a-8002-45ff-b37e-7effb669768b 
<http://ora.ox.ac.uk/objects/uuid:8df9647a-8002-45ff-b37e-7effb669768b>> 
or you can find it via the Bodleian Libraries website, under ORA, by 
looking for either our surname or its title, "Development and spread of 
the Rāma narrative (pre-modern)".

As before, there are additions, revisions and corrections to the 
material throughout.However, areas which have seen the greatest changes are:

·further re-organisation of folders: introducing a new folder, F. New 
Beginnings, which replaces the now deleted document within B. 
Bibliographic Inventory entitled 2A. Notes towards stage 3 (some of its 
contents have been transferred instead either to 2. Vālmīki Rāmāyaṇa or 
to 3. MBh &Purāṇas);

·Work by MB includes some new material, particularly on N Indian 
vernacular texts, in the ‘Narrative Elements tabulations’, where the 
previous ‘Cumulative’ file was becoming so unwieldy that it has now been 
sub-divided into 3 parts for greater ease of access.Most other work is 
focused on stage 3 of the /VRm/, revising previous notes and preparing 
new material for an in-depth study (in preparation) of the /Bāla /and 
/Uttara kāṇḍas/ themselves and their consequences for the rest of the 
/VRm/ text and narrative as a whole.Included is a detailed examination 
of 7,1-36 (Agastya’s post-victory narratives of the earlier exploits of 
the /rākṣasas/ and of Hanumān’s supremacy), exploring the innovative 
image of gods, heroes and /rākṣasas/ alike now being presented by these 
new authors;

·Work by JLB includes considerablefurther additions to all the 
bibliographic sections of files within B.Bibliographic Inventory, as 
well as the merging of the previously separate bibliographies for the 
/VR/ as a whole and for the third stage and other additions to and 
revision of 2. /Vālmīki Rāmāyaṇa/.There have also been major additions 
to the data within 10. visual (India).

//

If you are aware of colleagues in other fields (for example Southeast 
Asian languages or visual culture) who might be interested, do please 
pass the information on to them – and similarly, if any of you have 
access to suitable academic lists on which it could be posted, we would 
be grateful if you would send it to them.

As always, we shall be grateful for any comments from anyone who has 
used the material.

With all good wishes

John and Mary

John Brockington

Fellow, Oxford Centre for Hindu Studies

Emeritus Professor of Sanskrit, University of Edinburgh

Vice President, International Association of Sanskrit Studies

Mary Brockington

Fellow, Oxford Centre for Hindu Studies

Research Fellow, International Association of Sanskrit Studies

-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20210427/fd72f3f3/attachment.htm>
