+++
title = "19 Dr. T. Ganesan"
date = "2010-12-25"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2010-December/035019.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2010-December/035019.html)

We also find in the first section of the Taittiriiya AraNyaka which is called
aruNakAThaka or aruNaprashna the use of the word Bhaarata as in the mantra "
agnimicchadhvaM bhaarataaH".
Ganesan


25 12 10
> Harisvāmin’s commentary on the Śatapatha-Br.1.8.1.2 aughá imāḥ sárvvāḥ prajā́ḥ
> nirvvoḍhā runs as : sa imāḥ bhāratavarṣanivāsinīḥ prajāḥ nirvoḍhā niḥśeśaṃ
> deśāntaraṃ prāpayitā. The word will be found in all the major Purāṇas in
> Jambudvīpavarṇanam. Cf.,Matsya-P.122.te bhāratasya varṣasya bhedā yena
> prakīirtitāḥ . Emperor Asoka knew only the word Jambudvīpa.
> Best
> DB
>
> --- On Fri, 24/12/10, Christopher Wallis <bhairava11 at GMAIL.COM> wrote:
>
>
> From: Christopher Wallis <bhairava11 at GMAIL.COM>
> Subject: [INDOLOGY] Date of usage of the word Bhaarata to denote India
> To: INDOLOGY at liverpool.ac.uk
> Date: Friday, 24 December, 2010, 5:13 PM
>
>
> Dear esteemed colleagues,
>
> Happy holidays. I am reading and translating a very late ha.tha-yoga text
> called the Yoga-Kar.nikaa, the date of which can possibly be determined by
> its use of the phrase* sarvatiirthe.su bhaarate*. Does anyone know the
> earliest usage of Bhaarata in the meaning "India"? I am guessing 19th
> century, but I really don't know.
>
> thank you,
> Chris Wallis
>
> --
> ______________________________________
>
> Christopher D. Wallis, M.A. (Cal), M.Phil. (Oxon)
>
> University of California at Berkeley
>
>
>
>



