+++
title = "409 H.B.Dave"
date = "2000-03-23"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2000-March/020829.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2000-March/020829.html)

Dominik Wujastyk wrote:

> On Fri, 17 Mar 2000, Claude Setzer wrote:
>
> > Since you and Dominik seem so insistent that "Humanists" are superior in
> > their care about getting the facts straight,
>
> Claude!  This isn't at all what I have been arguing so painstakingly.
> Many scientists are very good at getting their facts straight.  I have
> been trying to say that people who express serious sweeping opinions on
> humanistic topics should be trained in that subject; the same exactly goes
> for people who want to make claims about this or that aspect of science.
>
> The problem I am addressing is that there is a sort of glamour about
> science and scientists in some circles today that makes it appear that a
> Nuclear Physicist (say) must be worth listening to on the subject of the
> date of the vedas (say), just by virtue of his scientific standing.  I
> disagree.  If this NP has studied Sanskrit and the veda, then fine, but
> his opinions will then be based on his humanistic studies, not on his
> knowledge of nuclear science.
>
> It really isn't a particularly controversial point I'm making.
>
> --
> Dominik Wujastyk
> Founder, INDOLOGY list.

What if the NP shows that RV (say) contains something about Neuclear Physics?
Do you listen to him or not becuase he is a NP?

-- Himanshu

e-mail : hbd at ddit.ernet.in
============================================



