+++
title = "91 Dr. Chlodwig H. Werba"
date = "2013-05-02"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2013-May/037790.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2013-May/037790.html)

No reason to mistrust Weber in this peculiar case. The word is clearly of Arabic origin; cf. also np. moddat.

With best wishes

Chlodwig H. Werba



  _____  

Von: INDOLOGY [mailto:indology-bounces at list.indology.info] Im Auftrag von Hock, Hans Henrich
Gesendet: Mittwoch, 01. Mai 2013 21:00
An: Martin Gansten
Cc: <indology at list.indology.info>
Betreff: Re: [INDOLOGY] Mudda?



This couldn't be a later Indo-Aryan form corresponding to Skt. mudrā? 



Hans Henrich Hock









On 1 May 2013, at 08:23, Martin Gansten wrote:





I should be very grateful if anyone could enlighten me as to the meaning and etymology of the North Indian word muddā, as in muddā daśā, referring to a particular astrological division of a single year of life (employed in varṣaphala or annual horoscopy). Clearly the word is not of Sanskrit origin, although it made its way into Sanskrit in early modern times. Monier-Williams and Böhtlingk just refer to mudda (with short -a) as an astrological term, without commenting on its meaning; the source is apparently Weber's Indische Studien 2: 276, which gives two possible Arabic etymologies; but as Weber was notoriously unlucky in his etymological guesses, I would rather hear the opinions of knowledgeable list members.

Martin Gansten
Lund University

_______________________________________________
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
http://listinfo.indology.info





-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20130502/c03f06ad/attachment.htm>
