+++
title = "04 d.keown at gold.ac.uk"
date = "1995-10-02"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1995-October/003256.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1995-October/003256.html)

----------------------------------------------
JOURNAL OF BUDDHIST ETHICS
-----------------------------------------------

GENERAL EDITORS:     Damien Keown (Goldsmiths, London),
                     Charles S. Prebish (Penn State)

TECHNICAL EDITOR:    Wayne Husted (Penn State)

BOOK REVIEW EDITOR:  Karen Lang (Virginia)

EDITORIAL BOARD:

Masao Abe (Nara), George Bond (Northwestern), David Chappell
(Hawaii), Lance Cousins (Manchester), Richard Gombrich
(Oxford), Charles Hallisey (Harvard), Ian Harris (St Martin's,
Lancaster), Peter Harvey (Sunderland), Richard Hayes (McGill),
Christopher Ives (Puget Sound), Leslie Kawamura (Calgary), Winston
King (Emeritus, Vanderbilt), Kenneth Kraft (Lehigh University),
Karen Lang (Virginia), Reginald Ray (Colorado), Lambert Schmithausen
(Hamburg), Robert Thurman (Columbia), Paul Williams (Bristol).

The _Journal of Buddhist Ethics_ is delighted to welcome Professor
Kenneth Kraft as the newest member of its Editorial Board. Kenneth
Kraft is Associate Professor of Religion Studies at Lehigh
University, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania.  He is the author of the
award-winning _Eloquent Zen: Daitoo and Early Japanese Zen_
(University of Hawaii, 1992) and the editor of _Zen: Tradition and
Transition_ (Grove, 1988).  He also edited _Inner Peace, World
Peace: Essays on Buddhism and Nonviolence_ (State University of New
York, 1992), which explores central tenets of Buddhist ethics in
historical and contemporary contexts.  Currently he is examining
moral issues pertaining to radioactive waste.

In acknowledging Professor Kraft's new association with the
journal, the editors are pleased to announce the forthcoming
publication of his important new article "Practicing Peace: Social
Engagement in Western Buddhism." (Available 3 October, 1995.)

Citation: Vol. 2 1995: 152-172
Directory: /vol 2
Filename: kraft.txt
Publication Date: 3 October 1995

ABSTRACT

     This essay examines some current concerns of socially engaged
Buddhists in the West. How does one practice nonviolence in one's own
life and in the world? How can the demands of "inner" and "outer" work
be reconciled? What framework should be used in assessing the effects
of Buddhist-inspired activism? Today's engaged Buddhists do not refer
extensively to Buddhism's ethical tradition, and some of their
activities may not appear to be distinctively Buddhist. Nonetheless,
their efforts reflect a longstanding Mahaayaana ideal -- that
transcendental wisdom is actualized most meaningfully in compassionate
action.





> From P.Friedlander at wellcome.ac.uk 02 95 Oct EDT 17:35:00
Date: 02 Oct 95 17:35:00 EDT
From: P.Friedlander at wellcome.ac.uk
Subject: Catalogues, Entries vs Numbers
Reply-To: P.Friedlander at wellcome.ac.uk
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=US-ASCII

Dear members of the list
This enquiry is directed mainly at those of you who use descriptive 
catalogues of manuscripts in Sanskrit, Hindi and other languages.

Some catalogues give greatest prominence to *a catalogue serial number* for 
each entry. (i.e. British Library catalogues, Tripathi's catalogue of the 
Strasbourg Jaina MSS)

A few catalogues give greatest prominence to the *MS number* for each entry. 
(i.e. Blumhardt and Master's catalogue of Gujarati and Rajasthani 
manuscripts in the IOL)   

My question is this, which system do you find preferable or easier to use?
[I ask this because I am about to publish a catalogue of Hindi Manuscripts 
in the library here and wonder which system to adopt.]

Dr Peter G. Friedlander
Cataloguer of Hindi and Panjabi Manuscripts
Wellcome Institute for the History of Medicine
183 Euston Road
London NW1 2BN





