+++
title = "120 F. Smith"
date = "1997-08-22"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1997-August/009018.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1997-August/009018.html)

I believe that Madhav is correct about this. I will try to check, But RV
recitation in the "srauta ritual is always eka"sruti, and the advanced
paa.thas must retain their accents (for brief examples see an 
appendix to Satavalekar's expanded RV text). It is possible that
non-"srauta rituals in South India could contain vik.rtipaa.tha, but that
would be the result of "modern ritualizing" (as my old teacher in Madras,
Agnihotram Ramanuja Thathacharya, calls it). As an immediate reaction,
however, I must say I have never read, heard of, or heard vik.rtis in
"srauta ritual.

Fred Smith
Univ. of iowa

On Fri, 22 Aug 1997, Madhav Deshpande wrote:

> The Shaunakiiya Caturadhyaayikaa suutra 4.108 relates to the value of the
> recitation (adhyayana) of Krama :  it is meant to firm up one's control of
> the Samhitaa and the Pada recitations.  I have not seen any sources which
> prescribe the use of the Vik.rtipaa.thas in ritual.  Would like to know if
> such prescriptions are found anywhere.
> 		Madhav Deshpande
> 
> On Thu, 21 Aug 1997, Srinivasan Pichumani wrote:
> 
> > 
> > Dear members, I would like to know if there is any
> > mention in the sUtra literature of usage of Vedic 
> > vikrtis such as krama, jaTA, ghana, ratha pAThas
> > in ritual as opposed to adhyayana.
> > 
> > Ghana recitation is heard on some occasions in
> > Vedic ritual in S.India... does this have any 
> > basis in the existing textual sources ? 
> > 
> > Thanks,
> > -Srini.
> > 
> > 
> 
> 





