+++
title = "129 H.M.Hubey"
date = "1998-11-09"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1998-November/014069.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1998-November/014069.html)

Dominique.Thillaud wrote:
>
> H.M.Hubey wrote:
> >That is also false. Romans called the Etruscans Tusci/Tursi. Turan was
> >a fertility goddes of Etruscans. Remarkably, /tuw/ is the root for
> >birth and begetting in Turkic.
>
>         Just a remark. The few we know about the Goddess Turan shows that
> She is the Etruscan equivalent of the Latin Venus and the Greek Aphrodite
> and nothing else. Hence, surely not a "fertility Goddess"! Assuming a link
> between Turan and "birth and begetting" shows the same flimsiness than,
> phonetically, between 'tur' and 'tuw'.

I think that this old Kurd I talked to circa 1971 who said sex was
the "entertainment for poor people" knew more about sex and love than
you did :-)

Nobody else except people with full stomachs usually in 20th century
or royalty in earlier times could actually make a big deal of "love"
as opposed to sex. IT is usually a euphemism, and poor and hungry people
don't care if they screw sheep, and love is far from their minds.


>         Best regards,
> Dominique
>
> PS: The confusion between love and fertility is probably a common idea in
> some monotheistic religions, but Greeks and Romans made a clear difference
> between the both ;-)
>
> Dominique THILLAUD
> Universite' de Nice Sophia-Antipolis, France

--
Best Regards,
Mark
-==-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
hubeyh at montclair.edu =-=-=-= http://www.csam.montclair.edu/~hubey
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
The information transmitted is intended only for the person or entity
to which it is addressed and may contain confidential and/or privileged
material.  Any review, retransmission, dissemination or other use of,
or taking of any action in reliance upon, this information by persons
or entities other than the intended recipient is prohibited. If you
received this in error, please contact the sender and delete the
material  from any computer.
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=



