+++
title = "98 P.Magnone at agora.stm.it"
date = "1995-03-20"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1995-March/002203.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1995-March/002203.html)


Re my previous message:

>As for YS II,47, there indeed is a varia lectio ananta/aanantya; among
>the commentators reading ananta, Vaacaspatimizra, VijJaanabhikzu,
>Raghavaananda Sarasvatii, BhaavaagaNeza, NaagojiibhaTTa, Raamaananda and
>Sadaazivendra Sarasvatii refer this to ZeSa, but they are all later than
>KaiyaTa.

... they are all later than KaiyaTa except for Vaacaspati, of course. Sorry
for the oversight.

Paolo Magnone
Catholic University of Milan
p.magnone at agora.stm.it

..







 --- MMMR v3.60unr




> From THRASHER at MAIL.LOC.GOV 20 1995 Mar EST 14:28:14
Date: 20 Mar 1995 14:28:14 EST
Reply-To: THRASHER <THRASHER at MAIL.LOC.GOV>
From: ALLEN W THRASHER <THRASHER at MAIL.LOC.GOV>
Subject: LOTUSES AND THE MOON

          More  on waterlilies and  the moon:   I  went  to  the stacks and 
          looked through several books  both horticultural and taxonomic on 
          waterlilies and lotuses, and  there  was  plenty said  about  day 
          blooming versus  night blooming ones,  but nothing whatever about 
          any opening with  the  moon.   All acquatic plants  called  water 
          lilies or lotuses are in one family, the Nymphaeaceae.  There are 
          terrestrial  plants  called  Lotus  either   in  science  or   in 
          horticultural usage, but they are unrelated and do  not look like 
          aquatic "lotuses."  Another detail is that  the nocturnal species 
          and hybrids  in  fact usually open  at  dusk  and  close  in  the 
          forenoon of the next day.  The terms "waterlily" and "lotus" have 
          no scientific standing, but  there  is  a tendency to  apply  the 
          former to American species and  the latter  to  Old  World  ones. 
          Prof. Ingalls told  me  years ago there was  a tendency to  apply 
          "waterlily" to  day blooming and "lotus" to  night blooming ones, 
          but  on  the  other  hand  the Sacred Lotus (Nelumbium) is  never 
          called a water lily that I've noticed. 

          Allen Thrasher 
          thrasher at mail.loc.gov                                             





