+++
title = "85 Дмитрий Комиссаров"
date = "2025-02-16"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2025-February/060253.html"
+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2025-February/060253.html)

By the way, speaking about citta, manas and vijñāna:

Johansson, Rune E. A. Citta, Mano, Vinnana—A Psychosemantic Investigation.
University of Ceylon Review Volume 23, Nos 1 & 2, April-October, 1965.
Somaratne, G. A. Citta, Manas and Viññāṇa: Aspects of Mind as Presented in
Early Buddhist Pali Discourses. Sri Lanka Association for Buddhist Studies,
2005

But, honestly, I don't remember if I liked these articles...
Best regards,
Dmitrii Komissarov

вс, 16 февр. 2025 г. в 19:12, alakendu Das via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info>:

> In Hindu Philosophy, Vignana is special knowledge.... to know something in
> it's proper perspective.
> In Buddhist Philosophy, Vignana is one of the 5 Skandhas , the other 4
> being Rupa, Samskara, Vedana and Sangya.
> Vigyana , Manas( i. e. Mind) and Chitta( Mind -Stuff) are synonymous terms
> .
> Regards.
> Alakendu Das.
>
> On Sun, Feb 16, 2025, 04:24 Harry Spier via INDOLOGY <
> indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
>
>> Dear all,
>> Abhinavagupta  titled the first chapter of both the Tantrāloka and
>> the Tantrasāra as "vijñānabhedaprakāśanaṃ".
>> See the colophons from the KSTS editions:
>> iti śrīmadācāryābhinavaguptapādaviracite śrītantrāloke
>> vijñānabhedaprakāśanaṃ nāma prathamamāhnikam || 1 ||
>> iti śrīmadabhinavaguptācāryaviracite tantrasāre vijñānabhedaprakāśanaṃ
>> nāma prathamamāhnikam ||1||
>>
>> Harry Spier
>>
>>
>> On Sat, Feb 15, 2025 at 11:43 AM David and Nancy Reigle via INDOLOGY <
>> indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
>>
>>> I always assume (perhaps wrongly) that when sources are recommended in
>>> reply to inquiries, others here besides the inquirer would also be
>>> interested in them. Since not everyone has easy access to the sources, I
>>> attach a scan of a photocopy I made long ago of this brief article by
>>> Franklin Edgerton that was suggested by Jonathan.
>>>
>>> Best regards,
>>> David Reigle
>>> Colorado, U.S.A.
>>>
>>> On Sat, Feb 15, 2025 at 2:28 AM Jonathan Silk via INDOLOGY <
>>> indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
>>>
>>>> excuse me if this was already mentioned
>>>> *Franklin Edgerton, “Jñāna and Vijñāna,”* in Festschrift für Moritz.
>>>> Winternitz, ed. O. Stein and W. Gambert (Leipzig: Otto Harrassowitz, 1933),
>>>> pp. 217–220
>>>>
>>>
>>> _______________________________________________
>>> INDOLOGY mailing list
>>> INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
>>> https://list.indology.info/mailman/listinfo/indology
>>>
>>
>> _______________________________________________
>> INDOLOGY mailing list
>> INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
>> https://list.indology.info/mailman/listinfo/indology
>>
>
> _______________________________________________
> INDOLOGY mailing list
> INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
> https://list.indology.info/mailman/listinfo/indology
>
-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20250216/ace03a9a/attachment.htm>
