+++
title = "85 Mrinal Kaul"
date = "2015-06-20"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2015-June/041359.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2015-June/041359.html)

They are still accepting the abstracts.

Mrinal Kaul

Call for Papers: (Dipartimento di Storia, Culture, Religioni, Università degli studi di Roma "La Sapienza")

The concept of religion transformed during Early Modern History, both in the “inner” de- bate generated by the collapse of Christianity, and in “outer” contexts, following a reaction to contacts with other cultures. Meant as a thematic section of our journal, the present call for papers aims to investigate “religion” as a modern concept and a colonial dispositif. The mod- ern concept of religion inspired different processes of “spiritual conquest” – in discursive and practical terms – within the dynamics of the “mondialization” produced in the age of discov- eries. The theme section will investigate, through a comparative methodology, the historical resemblances among simultaneous colonial processes taking place in the Americas, Africa, and Asia. Critical reflection on historical analogies and differences will contribute to a global mapping of the uses of the concept of religion during Early Modern History. We aim to pro- vide, on the one hand, an archaeology of the general modern concept of religion, and, on the other, a genealogy of religious studies, as a result of the international academic efforts towards a description, comparison, classification and explanation of religion. We expectthe authors to investigate the “invention” of religion as a “generalized” concept. Critical voices making use of colonial sources, such as missionary works, travel writings, etc., would be particularly wel- come, as well as contributions aimed to emphasize a “connected history of religions”. 








-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20150620/8ba603f7/attachment.htm>
-------------- next part --------------
A non-text attachment was scrubbed...
Name: callSMSRReligion.pdf
Type: application/pdf
Size: 737476 bytes
Desc: not available
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20150620/8ba603f7/attachment.pdf>
-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20150620/8ba603f7/attachment-0001.htm>
