+++
title = "74 Jason Neelis"
date = "2010-10-13"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2010-October/034783.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2010-October/034783.html)

Dear Indology listmembers,

Could you please make this advertisement (available online at:
http://www.ruhr-uni-bochum.de/php-bin/stellen/stellen.htm) known to
potentially interested applicants.

Thank you,

Jason Neelis
Wilfrid Laurier University

The Center for Religious Studies (CERES) at Ruhr-
Universitaet Bochum invites applications for a
researcher position in Indology (full-time, TV-L
E13, open from Dec 1, 2010, presently limited to
two years) in the interdisciplinary project
"Dynamics of text corpora and image programs:
Representations of Buddhist narrative along the
Silk Road" (funded by the Mercator Research
Initiative Ruhr (MERCUR)).
Based on textual and visual representations of
Buddhist narratives on the various lives of the
Buddha (especially avadānas and jātakas) from
Gandhara, Bamiyan, Khotan, Kucha, Turfan and
Dunhuang dating from the 3rd to 10th century, the
project team will conduct an exemplary study on
the role of the interaction of text corpora and
image programs within cross-regional religious
contact. The main responsiblity of the successful
applicant will be the processing of relevant
materials in Sanskrit, Pali and Gandhari, and the
joint production of a monograph together with
her/his sinological co-worker.
The ability to perform academic work should be
documented by a PhD / Dr. Phil degree. An
Indological or equivalent education, excellent
knowledge of Buddhist Sanskrit, Pali, preferably
also of Gandhari, experience in dealing with
manuscripts (especially from Central Asia) and
interest in interdisciplinary cooperation in an
international research environment are
presupposed, additional knowledge of visual
narratives is desirable.
Applications should be sent no later than October
21, 2010 by email to joerg.plassen at rub.de.

Im Rahmen der Duchführung des interdisziplinären
Projektes "Dynamiken von Textkorpora und
Bildprogrammen: Repräsentationen buddhistischer
Narrative entlang der Seidenstraße" (gefördert
durch die Stiftung Mercator mit der Initiative
Mercator Research Center Ruhr (MERCUR)) ist am
Centrum für Religionswissenschaftliche Forschung
(CERES) zum 1.12.2010 die Position einer
indologischen Projektmitarbeiterin / eines
indologischen Projektmitarbeiters (Vollzeit,
Vergütung nach TV-L E 13, ggw. befristet auf zwei
Jahre) zu besetzen.
Anhand von aus dem 3.-10. Jahrhundert datierenden
textlichen und visuellen Darstellungen
buddhistischer Narrative zu den verschiedenen
Leben der Buddhas (vor allem avadānas und jātakas)
aus Gandhāra, Bamiyan, Khotan, Kucha, Turfan und
Dunhuang soll exemplarisch die Bedeutung des
Zusammenwirkens von Textkorpora und Bildprogrammen
im überregionalen Religionskontakt untersucht
werden.
Die Aufgaben der/des für den indologischen
Projektteil verantwortlichen Mitarbeiterin/s
beinhalten vor allem die Bearbeitung des in
Buddhistischem Sanskrit, Pali und Gandhari
vorliegenden Materials und die gemeinsame
Erstellung einer Monographie mit der/m für den
sinologischen Teil Verantwortlichen.
Die Befähigung zur wissenschaftlichen Arbeit
sollte durch eine Promotion dokumentiert sein.
Eine indologische oder vergleichbare Ausbildung,
ausgezeichnete Kenntnisse in Buddhistischem
Sanskrit, Pali und möglichst auch Gandhari,
Erfahrung im Umgang mit originalsprachlichen
Manuskripten (insbes. aus Zentralasien) sowie
Aufgeschlossenheit für interdisziplinäre
Zusammenarbeit in einer internationalen
Forschungsumgebung werden vorausgesetzt,
zusätzliche Kenntnisse zu visuellen Narrativen
sind wünschenswert. Bewerbungen sollten bis zum
21. Oktober 2010 per email an joerg.plassen at rub.de
erfolgen.



