+++
title = "391 N. Ganesan"
date = "1998-03-24"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1998-March/011514.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1998-March/011514.html)

"Yaroslav V. Vassilkov" <yavass at YAVASS.USR.PU.RU> wrote:

*        By the way, I think that the participants in the debate on the spread
*of horses in India quite undeservedly ignored the archeological materials
*of the *megalithic* culture which at some sites (e.g. on the territory of
*historical Vidarbha) can be dated now as early as the beginning of the I
*mill. BC. Here we can speak really in terms of MASS material, consisting of
*bone remains and innumerable articles of metal harness. The megalithic
*material makes quite possible its comparison with the relevant data from
*"Scythian graves" (while some of the participants has asserted earlier
*that the latter have no analogues in India).


For the time period of 1000 BC onwards, sites like this will be important
for archaeology. From literature perspective, horse is a central Indian
figure.

References (admittedly some for later periods):

Cristiano Grottanelli,
Yoked horses, Twins and the Powerful Lady: India, Greek, Ireland
and elsewhere.
j. IE studies, 14, p. 125-152, 1986

Massive terracota horse construction.
Oklahoma state university, Stillwater, 19 min. film, Ron DuBois.
The ancient art of S. Indian potters building 9 to 25
feet terracota horses.

Stephen Fuchs, The Vedic horse sacrifice in its culture-historical
relations, Inter-India, 1996, 248 p.

T. K. Biswas, Horse in early Indian art, 1987

Elinor G. Smith, Horses, history and havoc: through the ages with hoof in
mouth, New York, 1969

Mary C. Lanius, The rampant horse and rider motif - its
development as a major decorative element in S. India,
1966, M.A. thesis, Univ. of Hawaii.

Regards,
N. Ganesan



