+++
title = "232 fo8z003"
date = "1999-01-14"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1999-January/015295.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1999-January/015295.html)

Many thanks, Allen. Please airmail the copy at your earliest convenience to:
Ashok Aklujkar
Apt 102
Rothenbaumchaussee 34
Gaestehaus der Universitaet
D-20148 Hamburg
Germany.

Also, kindly let me know how much I owe you for this copy as well as the copy
you sent earlier of the Jagad-guru (or whatever the precise title is). I do
not recall having reimbursed you for the latter.

I will here in Germany until the end of August.

Happy new year. -- ashok

Allen W Thrasher wrote:
>
> Ashok,
>
> I have copied the article and will send  it to you.  It is from the
> 1981 Burdwan Commemoration volume.  What is your current earthmail
> address?
>
> Allen
>
> Below are the catalog records for the two SKC Festschriften:
>
> ACCESSION: 26716575
>     TITLE: Suniti Kumar Chatterji jubilee volume :
>            presented on the occasion of his sixty-fifth birthday (26th
>
>            November, 1955)
>     PLACE: [Poona :
> PUBLISHER: Linguistic Society of India],
>      YEAR: 1955
>  PUB TYPE: Book
>    FORMAT: xix, 344 p., [3] leaves of plates : port.
>            ; 25 cm.
>    SERIES: Indian linguistics ; v. 16
>     NOTES: Cover title: Chatterji jubilee volume.
>            Includes bibliographical references.
>   SUBJECT:
>            Chatterji, Suniti Kumar, -- 1890-1977.
>            Linguistics.
>     OTHER: Chatterji, Suniti Kumar, 1890-1977.
>            Linguistic Society of India.
>            Chatterji jubilee volume
>
> ACCESSION: 13670584
>     TITLE: Suniti Kumar Chatterji commemoration volume
>
>     PLACE: [Burdwan] :
> PUBLISHER: University of Burdwan,
>      YEAR: 1981
>  PUB TYPE: Book
>    FORMAT: ii, 327 p., [1] leaf of plates : port. ;
>            23 cm.
>     NOTES: Spine title: S.K. Chatterji commemoration
>            volume.
>            Includes bibliographies.
>   SUBJECT:
>            Chatterji, Suniti Kumar, -- 1890-1977.
>            India
>             -- Languages.
>     OTHER: Mallik, Bhaktiprasad.
>            S.K. Chatterji commemoration volume.
> Allen W. Thrasher, Ph.D.
> Senior Reference Librarian
> Southern Asia Section
> Library of Congress
> Asian Division
> LJ150
> 101 Independence Ave., SE
> Washington, DC 20540-4810
> USA
> tel. 202-707-3732
> fax  202-707-1724
> email: athr at loc.gov
>
> The usual disclaimers apply.



