+++
title = "67 Dr. T. Ganesan"
date = "2013-06-03"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2013-June/037960.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2013-June/037960.html)


Yes. It should logically and histortically mean only Siva. For, we have 
an ancient verse aabout the origin of the Mahesvarasuutra-s that are the 
fundamental to the Sanskrit Grammar. The verse runs:
     nRttaavasaane naTaraajaraajaH nanaada DhakkaaM nava pañcavaaram .
So Siva is not only NaTaraaja but naTaraajaraaja !!!
Also we find hundreds of images ... in stone , metal, etc. of NaTaraaja 
in all parts of the Bhaaratadesa.
The Saivasiddhanta philosophy attaches so much importance to the dance 
of Siva: the five divine acts (pañcakRtya)--creation, maintenance, , 
etc. which Siva performs are all linked with each one of the objects 
that naTaraaja holds and with His divine eternal dance.

Ganesan

Dr.T.Ganesan
Senior Researcher in Saivasiddhanta
French Institute of Pondicherry
UMIFRE 21 CNRS-MAEE
11, St. Louis Street
P.B. 33  PONDICHERRY-605001
INDIA
Tel: +91 - 413 - 22 31 643
E mail: ganesan at ifpindia.org
Web: www.ifpindia.org



On 03-06-2013 11:17, Valerie J Roebuck wrote:
> I would think it would be S'iva, since Nat.es'a refers to him (in the 
> form often called Nat.ara-ja). 'Nat.es'vara' would seem to be a 
> logical development.
>
> Valerie J Roebuck
> Manchester, UK
>
> On 3 Jun 2013, at 05:29, Harsha Dehejia <harshadehejia at hotmail.com 
> <mailto:harshadehejia at hotmail.com>> wrote:
>
>> Friends~
>>
>> Does the word Nateshvar refer to Krishna or Shiva?
>>
>> Regards.
>>
>> Harsha V. Dehejia
>> Ottawa, ON., Canada.


-- 



-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20130603/e579ac1e/attachment.htm>
