+++
title = "119 Jan E.M. Houben"
date = "2014-10-29"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2014-October/040163.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2014-October/040163.html)

16th World Sanskrit Conference – Bangkok 28 June – 2 July 2015

Section of Linguistics, PANEL on the Vedic and Sanskrit Verbal System

conveners: J.E.M. Houben, L. Kulikov, V. Sadovski

While Sanskrit, including Vedic Sanskrit, has an ancient and probably
intrinsic capacity to form verbless, nominal sentences (Meillet 1908), it
also has a verbal system that is both morphologically and semantically very
well developed. The discovery and study in the west of ancient Indian
methods of describing the morphology, syntax and semantics of the verb,
from around two centuries ago, gave significant impulses to western and
modern linguistics. In recent decades the Vedic and Sanskrit verb have
received a number of studies that open important new perspectives. At the
same time, the works of ancient Sanskrit grammarians and language
specialists have become accessible in a much better way than one to two
centuries ago when F. Bopp, B. Delbrück, W.D. Whitney, F. de Saussure and
others had started to investigate the Sanskrit verb. Although problems of
philology and interpretation remain and will remain, it has become
reasonably well possible to focus on the linguistic content of relevant
ancient Sanskrit works and compare their methods and descriptions with
modern ones. This should enable us both to have better evaluations and
appreciations of modern contributions and to make more adequate critical
use of precious observations in ancient Indian linguistic disciplines. For
this panel papers dealing with new analyses of the morphology, syntax and
semantics of the Vedic and Sanskrit verb are invited as well as papers
dealing with ancient analyses, theories and observations on the Vedic and
Sanskrit verb. Languages of the conference and the panel are English and
Sanskrit.

N.B.

This is a panel *within* the Section of Linguistics of the 16th WSC. For
more details on participation and submission of abstracts BEFORE 30
NOVEMBER 2014:

http://www.sanskrit-silpakorn.org/images/pdf/16th-WORLD-SANSKRIT-CONFERENCE-SECOND-ANNOUNCEMENT.pdf

Submission of abstracts:
http://www.sanskrit-silpakorn.org/registration-form-wsc.php



*** *** ***

Alors que le sanskrit, y compris le sanskrit védique, a une ancienne
capacité,  probablement intrinsèque, à former des phrases nominales, c’est
à dire, des phrases sans verbe fini (Meillet 1908), il a aussi un système
verbal qui est très bien développé à la fois morphologiquement et
sémantiquement. La découverte et l'étude occidentales des anciennes
méthodes indiennes de décrire la morphologie, la syntaxe et la sémantique
du verbe, en commençant il y a environ deux siècles, ont donné des
impulsions importantes à la linguistique occidentale et moderne. Au cours
des dernières décennies, le verbe védique et sanskrit a reçu un certain
nombre d'études qui ouvrent de nouvelles perspectives importantes. En même
temps, les œuvres anciennes des grammairiens sanskrits et spécialistes de
la langue sont devenues accessibles d’une façon beaucoup meilleure qu’il y
a un ou deux siècles quand F. Bopp, B. Delbrück, W.D. Whitney, F. de
Saussure et d'autres ont commencé à enquêter sur le verbe sanskrit. Bien
que des problèmes de la philologie et l'interprétation restent et
resteront, il est devenu assez bien possible de se concentrer sur le
contenu linguistique des travaux pertinents et de comparer leurs méthodes
et descriptions avec celles de la linguistique moderne. Cela devrait nous
permettre à la fois d'avoir de meilleures évaluations et appréciations des
contributions modernes et de faire un usage critique et adéquate des
observations précieuses dans les anciennes disciplines linguistiques
indiennes. Pour ce panel des articles traitant de nouvelles analyses de la
morphologie, la syntaxe et la sémantique du verbe védique et sanskrit sont
invités ainsi que des articles traitant des analyses anciennes, des
théories et des observations sur le verbe védique et sanskrit. Les langues
de la conférence et du panel sont l’anglais et le sanskrit.

*** *** ***

Sanskrit, einschließlich vedisches Sanskrit, hat eine alte und
wahrscheinlich ursprüngliche Kapazität zur Bildung nominaler Sätzen, d.h.
Sätze ohne verbum finitum (Meillet 1908), aber es hat auch ein
Verbalsystem, das sowohl morphologisch und semantisch sehr gut entwickelt
ist. Die Entdeckung und Untersuchung im Westen von vor etwa zwei
Jahrhunderten der alten indischen Methoden zur Beschreibung der
Morphologie, Syntax und Semantik des Verbs gab wesentliche Impulse zur
westlichen und modernen Linguistik. Dem vedischen und sanskrit Verb waren
in den letzten Jahrzehnten eine Reihe von Studien gewidmet, die wichtige
neue Perspektiven geöffnet haben. Zugleich sind die Werke der alten
Sanskrit Grammatikern und Sprachspezialisten jetzt viel besser zugänglich
als vor etwa 1-2 Jahrhunderten, wenn F. Bopp, B. Delbrück, W.D. Whitney, F.
de Saussure und anderen anfängen, das sanskrit Verb zu untersuchen. Obwohl
Probleme der Philologie und Interpretation bleiben und bleiben werden, ist
es jetzt ziemlich gut möglich, sich zu konzentrieren auf dem linguistischen
Inhalt relevanter alten sanskrit Texte und ihre Methoden und Beschreibungen
zu vergleichen mit denen der modernen Linguistik. Dies sollte es uns
einerseits ermöglichen, bessere Auswertungen und Würdigungen der modernen
Beiträgen zu haben, und andererseits die wertvolle Beobachtungen der alten
indischen linguistischen Disziplinen kritisch and adäquat zu benutzen. Für
dieses Panel werden Beiträge mit neuen Analysen der Morphologie, Syntax und
Semantik des vedischen und sanskrit Verbs eingeladen, ebenso wie Beiträge
über die alten Analysen, Theorien und Beobachtungen des vedischen und
sanskrit Verbs. Die Tagungssprachen sind Englisch und Sanskrit.


Prof. Dr. Jan E.M. Houben,
Directeur d Etudes « Sources et Histoire de la Tradition Sanskrite »
Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes, Sciences historiques et philologiques,
Sorbonne – 54, rue Saint-Jacques
CS 20525 – 75005 Paris – France.
johannes.houben at ephe.sorbonne.fr <JEMHouben at gmail.com>
*https://ephe-sorbonne.academia.edu/JanEMHouben
<https://ephe-sorbonne.academia.edu/JanEMHouben>*


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20141030/7f68f758/attachment.htm>
