+++
title = "580 Dr. Greg Bailey"
date = "2000-10-31"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2000-October/023518.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2000-October/023518.html)

Dear Dr. Tilak,

I just sent you a private message.  Apologies.  It went to the Indology
list as a whole.

"Herewith a copy:

Dear Dr. Tilak,


I would like to attend the conference on the Mahabharata you announced some
time ago.

If it is not too late, I would like to offer a paper fitting into the
second of your categories.  I have not yet formulated a full paper but a
tentative title would be:

The Mahabharata's Simultaneous Affirmation and Critique of the Universal
Validity of Dharma.

I apologize for responding to you so late.

Would please be able to confirm whether my paper is acceptable to you.


Yours Sincerely,

Dr. Greg Baile"


Take it is a reflection of my incompatability with computers.

Cheers,


Greg Bailey



>Dear list members: Please circulate the following communication among those
>interested.
>ST
>
>
>           International Conference on the Mahabharata
>     Organized by the Chair in Hindu Studies, Concordia University
>
>
>Dates:      7th, 8th, and 9th June 2001
>
>Location:  Concordia University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada
>
>Themes:   1) Methodological Problems of Teaching the Mahabharata
>          2) Character Analysis based on Ethical Issues
>          3) Challenge and Response in the Context of philosophical,
>Social and
>Other Issues
>
>Please send  (1) title of your paper, indicating the category of  the theme
>under which it should come ( by October 1, 2000) and (2) abstract of  about
>300 words  (by January 1, 2001)  to Dr Shrinivas Tilak,  Department of
>Religion, Concordia University, 1455 de Maisonneuve, West, Montreal, Quebec,
>Canada  H3G 1M8. Selected abstracts will be included in the brochure being
>planned for the Conference.
>
>For further information contact Shrinivas Tilak, Coordinator, Mahabharata
>Conference 2001 at <shrinivast at hotmail.com>
>_________________________________________________________________________
>Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com.
>
>Share information about yourself, create your own public profile at
>http://profiles.msn.com.



