+++
title = "84 H. Mark Hubey"
date = "1999-06-10"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1999-June/017537.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1999-June/017537.html)

Here is another one:

1. ME: Abraham, Ibrahim, Avram. Finds a ram with its paws caught
in a thicket. A goat with its front legs caught in a tree is also
found in Sumerian.

2. INDIA: Brahma finds a rhinoceros with its horn stuck in a tree.


"Yaroslav V. Vassilkov" wrote:

> Here are some other similiarities between Ancient Indian and Mesopotamian
> myths:
>
> 1. Both INDIA and MESOPOTAMIA: a pious man is warned about the flood.
> A god/fish gives him advice to build an ark/ship. The difference between two
> forms of a benefactor is diminished by the fact that Sumerian/Mesopotamian
> god Ea/Enki sometimes appears in the form of a fish.
> 2. MESOPOTAMIA: the pious man takes on board "the seed of souls of every kind";
> INDIA: Manu takes on board "seeds of all kinds" (Mbh).
> 3. Number "7" plays some role in both myths, MIDDLE EAST: 7 months of the
> flood (Bible), 7 nights of the flood, 7+7 incence-burners used in the final
> sacrifice (Sumer); INDIA: 7 sages aboard the ship; 7 clouds of Doomsday flood
> the earth.
> 4. Both INDIA and MESOPOTAMIA: landing at the top of a mountain.
> 5. Both: the final sacrifice. MIDDLE EAST: the God "sensed the smell of
> Noah's sacrifice" (Bible), gods like flies sense the smell and come together
> to Utnapishti's sacrifice; INDIA: Manu poured into the water clarified butter,
> milk etc.: out of it arose IDA (ILA), soon after that "Mitra and VaruNa met
> her", i.e. the sacrificial offering (as in Mesopotamian accounts too)
> reached the gods.
>         I would be glad ti know what the participants of this discussion think
> about my "list of similiarities".
>
>         Best regards,
>                                                 Yaroslav Vassilkov

--
Sincerely,
M. Hubey
hubeyh at mail.montclair.edu
http://www.csam.montclair.edu/~hubey



