+++
title = "368 Ven. Tantra"
date = "2000-12-17"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2000-December/024474.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2000-December/024474.html)

V. Sundaresan: "Sometimes, ivory towers are useful...I
think the inhabitants need to get out more."

B. Kaldhol: "...please remember that when you send
something to this list, it will be there in the
archive forever..."
________________________

As future debates continue to blow up and as we find
ourselves embroiled in argumentation long saut�ed in
rich cultural chauvinisms, we should also look forward
to the familiar reappearance of anonymous contributors
who plainly covet no concern for anybody's posterity.
And though the interest of this new-generation poster
may be likened to that of the urban graffitist, one
must not misinterpret their forceful gestures as a
mere avocation in denigrating public space � No, but
to render it sacred � these cursive swipes that trash
fiasco. I actually find it rather Twombly-esque, this
spray can version of chalk on Roman distemper, as our
self-absorbed list becomes curtly remodeled on the
palimpsest � indeed, a textbook case of the
"out-of-touch" getting unceremoniously touch over.

VT

Ref: R. Hughes, "The Graffiti of Loss"
http://www.time.com/time/magazine/archive/1994/941017/941017.art.html


__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Shopping - Thousands of Stores. Millions of Products.
http://shopping.yahoo.com/



