+++
title = "66 Dr. Rupali Mokashi"
date = "2014-08-09"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2014-August/039810.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2014-August/039810.html)

Where can I find Sayadri Khandha)" -Ed. Dr. Jarson D. Kunha, Marathi
version Ed. By Gajanan Shastri Gaytonde. Published by Shree Katyani
Publication, Mumbai
Rupali Mokashi
On 09-Aug-2014 9:32 pm, <indology-request at list.indology.info> wrote:

> Send INDOLOGY mailing list submissions to
>         indology at list.indology.info
>
> To subscribe or unsubscribe via the World Wide Web, visit
>
> http://list.indology.info/mailman/listinfo/indology_list.indology.info
>
> or, via email, send a message with subject or body 'help' to
>         indology-request at list.indology.info
>
> You can reach the person managing the list at
>         indology-owner at list.indology.info
>
> When replying, please edit your Subject line so it is more specific
> than "Re: Contents of INDOLOGY digest..."
>
>
> Today's Topics:
>
>    1. Re: Pali question (Gleb Sharygin)
>    2. Puloman (Howard Resnick)
>    3. Re: Pali question (Chris Clark)
>    4. Calukya/Caulukya, etc. (Martin Gansten)
>
>
> ----------------------------------------------------------------------
>
> Message: 1
> Date: Sat, 9 Aug 2014 00:42:16 +0400
> From: Gleb Sharygin <gleb.sharygin at gmail.com>
> To: indology at list.indology.info
> Subject: Re: [INDOLOGY] Pali question
> Message-ID:
>         <CALPiqitPSNyt=DJG=-
> c_wVqZrvr1r2q14fErvKNJxhYSL0KOiw at mail.gmail.com>
> Content-Type: text/plain; charset="utf-8"
>
> Dear Dr. Walser,
>
> "-tv?" is perfectly grammatical and standard, while "-tva" isn't (must be a
> typo. Most PTS editions were made on a basis of only a few MSS.) See
> Geiger's "A P?li grammar", ?? 209-210.
>
> With best regards,
> Gleb Sharygin
>
> > I was using the CSCD Pali canon and noticed that in the Sutta Nipata, the
> > > fourth verse of the Upasivamanavapuccha has the line: ?ki?ca??a?
> nissito
> > > hitv? ma??a?. The PTS has, ?ki?ca??a? nissito hitva ma??a?;
> > >
> > > Is  hitv? (long a) a legitimate variant that appears in the Burmese
> > > version or the Thai version, or is it a typo?
> > > Thanks!
> > >
> > > -j
> > >
> > > Joseph Walser
> > > Associate Professor
> > > Department of Religion
> > > Tufts University
> >
> >
> >
> >
> >
> > _______________________________________________
> > INDOLOGY mailing list
> > INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
> > http://list.indology.info/mailman/listinfo/indology_list.indology.info
> >
> >
> 


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20140809/9815308b/attachment.htm>
