+++
title = "262 H.M.Hubey"
date = "1998-11-12"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1998-November/014152.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1998-November/014152.html)

Michael Witzel wrote:
>
> The attestation in a great number of IE languages points to a rather old
> meaning "to take something (in a vehicle) somewhere" (terminative action),
> which has become durative already in (late) Proto-IE and thus made an
> s-aorist necessary (Vedic avaaT, subj. aor.  vakS-at; Greek (dial.)
> eFekse, Latin vexi, etc.):

I am curious. Wouldn't this word have arisen via analogy out of
something similar? What would it be? Driving animals? Carrying
things on our back? What would you call hitching animals? Would
the word have arisen out of "tying" or "binding" or putting the
animals up front of the cart?

Would it be from walking/running or the causative version of one
of them?

I am assuming, of course, that they had not yet picked up the
habit of creating new names for things from Greek and Latin :-)


--
Best Regards,
Mark
-==-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
hubeyh at montclair.edu =-=-=-= http://www.csam.montclair.edu/~hubey
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
The information transmitted is intended only for the person or entity
to which it is addressed and may contain confidential and/or privileged
material.  Any review, retransmission, dissemination or other use of,
or taking of any action in reliance upon, this information by persons
or entities other than the intended recipient is prohibited. If you
received this in error, please contact the sender and delete the
material  from any computer.
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=



