+++
title = "426 N. Ganesan"
date = "1999-01-22"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1999-January/015453.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1999-January/015453.html)

>>Prof. G. v. Simson asked whether chariot and charioteer
>>are denoted by the same term in Tamil.
>>As far as I know, definitely tEr is only the chariot,
>>never its driver.

>Well, I did not mean "its driver", but the warrior standing on the
>car, behind the driver. But I assume you will say that this can be
>excluded as well.

 The Alvar's words: "pArttan2 tan2 tEr mun2 nin2RAn2ai" -
It means "the guy who stood in front of Arjuna's chariot".
It simply means Krishna as Arjuna's Charioteer.

To read "the one who stood on top of Arjuna's chariot in the front"
we need different phrases: eg.,

           1) "pArttan2 tan2 tErkkaN mun2 nin2RAn2ai"
           or,
           2) "pArttan2 tan2 tEril mun2 nin2RAn2ai"
           or,
           3) "pArttan2 tan2 tErmEl mun2 nin2RAn2ai"

These cases are totally absent in Alvar's pAsuram (poems).
Are they 'vERRumait tokai'?


>>The third line says "to destroy enemies, standing in
>>front of Partha's chariot"

>Could the text also be understood as: "standing in the front part of
>Partha's  chariot"?

  Explicitly, it cannot be assumed this way. Tamil Cases
  like "il" or kaN" or the word "mEl" are absent.

Regards
N. Ganesan

PS: A humble request to Thiru. Chandra, Let us all use
Madras univ. transliteration scheme for Tamil. Widely used
in scholarly publications from 1930s. Also in
Institute of Indology and Tamil studies web page
for an extensive collection of all Tamil literature,
Tamil lexican and Tamil books catalogue.

  Tamil transliteration without diacritical marks:
  ************************************************
 Vowels:       a aa/A i ii/I u uu/U e ee/E ai o oo/O au
 Consonants:   k g c jn T N t n p m y r l v z L R n2
 Aytam:        q/H

Thanks, ng


______________________________________________________
Get Your Private, Free Email at http://www.hotmail.com



