+++
title = "259 N. Ganesan"
date = "1998-12-14"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1998-December/014580.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1998-December/014580.html)

Avalokita is a major deity for billion+ people.,
Kuanyin for China, Kannon for Japan and in preislamic
Indonesia (Borabudur) and in all countries of Southeast Asia.

Many published references exist explaining
'Siva-Avalokita relations.

N. S. Raja wrote:
"There is almost nothing in common between
the "personalities" of these two deities,
Siva and Avalokiteshvara."

Many publications write materials running to several
pages on 'Siva-Avalokitezvara commonalities.

Regards,
N. Ganesan

On Mon, 14 Dec 1998, N. Ganesan wrote:

> avalokitezvara (the Hindu 'Siva in a Buddhist garb)
                      ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
I presume this is a theory rather
than an established fact.  There
is almost nothing in common between
the "personalities" of these two deities,
Siva and Avalokiteshvara.  In fact, they
are almost exact opposites.

Siva is often wrathful, Avalokiteshvara never so;
one is a hunter, the other saves animals; one
is sometimes cruel, the other is always
compassionate; one is hot-tempered, the
other patient; one is associated with destruction,
the other with protection; etc. etc. etc.  Further,
Avalokiteshvara is definitely the sidekick or
subsidiary  of a big shot, i.e., the Buddha Amitabha,
whereas Siva stands alone.

Just a few differences...

Regards,


Raja.



______________________________________________________
Get Your Private, Free Email at http://www.hotmail.com



