+++
title = "39 K. S. Arjunwadkar"
date = "1998-11-03"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1998-November/013935.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1998-November/013935.html)

November 3, 1998

Dear Members,
Sorry to have forgotten to give my postal address in my posting in the
Indology list re-posted below for convenience. The address is

Prof. K. S. Arjunwadkar
Devanginee, 1192 Shukrawar Peth
Pune 411 002, India
OR
Prof. K. S. Arjunwadkar
Anandashram Samstha
22 Budhwar Peth
Pune 411 002, India

Now even those from your acqaintances who do not have e-mail facility can
contact me.

Sincerely,
KSA

>Date:    Fri, 30 Oct 1998 13:04:11 +0530
>From:    "K. S. Arjunwadkar" <panini at PN2.VSNL.NET.IN>
>Subject: History of Marathi Grammar (in Marathi)...Free copies
>
>>From    "K. S. Arjunwadkar" <panini at pn2.vsnl.net.in>
>
>Oct 30, 1998
>
>Dear Members,
>Of the many works I have authored in the area of linguistic study of
>Marathi, I wish to gift 25 copies of the History of Marathi Grammar (in
>Marathi) to academic/educational institutes and individuals interested in
>this study, -- to ensure the survival and knowledge, and facilitate the
>study, of this subject and work in places where Marathi is spoken and/or
>studied.
>
>This work, published in 1992, is the product of a devoted study of more
>than 20 years, and covers the history of the subject of about 7 centuries
>from its beginnings in 14th century upto a recent work published in 1990.
>It reviews 109 small and extensive works on the subject divided in suitable
>groups; and discusses in its epilogue the strong and weak points of the
>tradition as well as the scientific lines on which it should proceed.
>
>Those interested can contact me on the e-mail address given above.
>
>Best wishes.
>KSA



