+++
title = "143 B. Reusch"
date = "1998-06-17"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1998-June/012807.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1998-June/012807.html)

Dominique.Thillaud wrote:

>It could be perhaps useful to have the Sanskrit text,

>"with reference to these" being the key.


Although George already posted the Skt. for NighaNTu 1.11 and Nirukta
2.23, I am pasting it all together here along with a few more details
on VAc, for easy reference.


NighaNTu 1.11:


zlokaH | dhArA | ifA [f = Vedic L]| gauH | gaurI | gandharvI | gabhIrA
| gambhIrA | mandrA | mandrAjanI | vAzI | vANI | vANIcI | vANaH | paviH
| bhAratI | dhamaniH | nAfI [in some MSS nIliH] | mefiH | menA [in some
MSS meniH]| sUryA | sarasvatI | nivit | svAhA | vagnuH [in some MSS
gagnuH] | upabdiH | mAyuH | kAkut [in some MSS kAkup] | jihvA | ghoSaH
| svaraH | zabdaH | svanaH | Rk | hotrA | gIH | gAthA | gaNaH | dhenA |
gnAH [in some MSS gnA] | vipA | nanA [in some MSS nagnA] | kazA |
dhiSaNA | nauH | akSaram | mahI | aditiH | zacI | vAk | anuSTup |
dhenuH | valguH [in some MSS vagnuH] | galdA | saraH [in some MSS
rasaH] | suparNI | bekurA-iti saptapaJcAzadvAGnAmAni || 11 ||


George:

"p.s. I wonder if there is any significance to the variant reading for
saras: rasaH."


Out of the above 57 names of vAc, Nirukta elaborates only on one:
sarasvatI, which "is [the only one] used both in the sense of 'a river'
and of 'a deity' in Vedic passages" (nadIvad devatAvacca nigamA
bhavanti).

As I see it, this is the sense of "whith reference to these," which is
L.S.'s translation of *tatra* in Nir. 2.23 below.


Nirukta 2.23:


vAGnAmAnyuttarANi saptapaJcAzat | vAk kasmAd | vaceH | tatra
sarasvatItyetasya nadIvad devatAvacca nigamA bhavanti | tad yad
devatAvadupariSTAt tad vyAkhyAsyAmaH | athaitannadIvat || 23 ||


L. Sarup's (complete) translation of Nirukta 2.23:


'The following fifty-seven (words) [in the NighaNTu] are synonyms of
speech. From what (root) is vAc (speech) derived? It is derived from
(the root) vac (to speak). With reference to these, the word SarasvatI
is used both in the sense of 'a river' and of 'a deity' in Vedic
passages; we shall explain the (Vedic passages) where it is used in the
sense of a deity later, and just now those where it is used in the
sense of a river" [trans. L. S.]


Nirukta 11.26-29:


[quote: RV 1.3.10]

pAvakA naH sarasvatI | annairannavatI | yajJaM vaSTu dhiyAvasuH
karmavasuH | tasyA eSAparA bhavati || 26 ||

"May SarasvatI, who purifies, who possesses large stores of food, and
who is rich in devotion, like our sacrifices [RV 1.3.10 trans. L.S.]

"May SarasvatI, our purifier, having abundant stores of food, and rich
in devotion, i.e. in acts of worship, like the sacrifice" [Nir. 11.26
trans. L.S.]


[Note on RV 1.3.10-12: Geldner says that stanzas 10 & 11 refer to the
goddess of sacred speech, whereas stanza 12, in his opinion, refers to
the river goddess.]


[quote: RV 1.3.12]

mahadarNaH sarasvatI pracetayati prajJApayati ketunA karmaNA prajJayA
vA | imAni ca sarvANiprajJAnAnyabhivirAjati | vAgartheSu vidhIyate |
tasmAnmAdhyamikAM vAcaM manyante | vAgvyAkhyAtA | tasyA eSA bhavati ||
27 ||


"With her banner SarasvatI makes the great ocean manifest. She presides
over all devotions [RV 1.3.12 trans. L.S.]

"With her banner, i.e. with her activity or wisdom, SarasvatI makes the
great ocean manifest, i.e. causes it to be known. She presides over all
these sacrifices. This is applied to the objects of speech; speech is
therefore regarded as belonging to the sphere of the atmosphere.

"Speech has been explained [at Nir. 2.23]. The following stanza is
addressed to her" [Nir. 11.27 trans. L.S.]


[quote: RV 8.100.10]

yadvAgvadanti | avicetanAnyavijJAtAni | rASTrI devAnAM niSasAda (or:
mandrA) madanA | catasro 'nudiza UrjaM duduhe
payA<underline>M</underline>si | kva svidasyAH paramaM jagAmeti |
yatpRthivIM gacchatIti vA | yadAdityarazmayo harantIti vA tasyA eSaparA
bhavati || 28 ||


"When vAc, speaking unknown words sat down as the charming queen of the
gods, the four milked food and milk, but where did her best portion go?
[RV 8.100.10 trans. L.S.]

"When VAc, speaking unknown, i.e. unintelligible, words sat down as the
(charming) pleasant queen of the gods, all the four quarters milked
food and waters. But where did her best portion go? It may be that
which goes to the earth or that which is taken away by the rays of the
sun. The following, another stanza, is addressed to her" [Nir. 11.28
trans. L.S.]


[quote: RV 8.100.11]

devIM vAcamajanayanta devAH | tAM sarvarUpAH pazavo vadanti |
vyaktavAcazcAvyaktavAcazca | sA no madanAnnaM ca rasaM ca duhAnA
dhenurvAgasmAnupaitu suSTutA | [...] || 29 ||


"The gods generated divine speech. Animals of all shapes speak it. May
that charming milch cow, in the form of speech bestowing on us
strength-giving food, easily approach us [ RV 8.100.11 trans. L.S.]

"The gods generated the goddess VAc. Animals of all shapes speak it,
i.e. animals whose sounds are articulate and those whose sounds are
inarticulate. May that pleasant milch cow, in the form of VAc bestowing
food and juice on us, easily approach us" [Nir. 11.29 trans. L.S.]


I hope this facilitates the conversation.


Beatrice Reusch

University of California, Berkeley
-------------- next part --------------
A non-text attachment was scrubbed...
Name: attachment.bin
Type: text/enriched
Size: 5099 bytes
Desc: not available
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/19980616/1bca7856/attachment.bin>
