+++
title = "128 Jean-Luc Chevillard"
date = "2018-12-16"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2018-December/048998.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2018-December/048998.html)

Dear Indology list members,

while examining the printed version of a 17th century Tamil-Portuguese 
"Vocabulario" by Antaõ de Proença (1625-1666), and also, occasionally, 
later Tamil-Latin dictionaries, I have often been wondering what the 
situation was for Sanskrit.

I am currently preparing an electronic edition of Proença's 1679 
posthumous /Vocabulario Tamulico Com a Significaçam Portugueza/, which 
contains 508 printed pages on two columns (totalling 16209 
non-lemmatized entries) for the vocabulary proper (excluding the initial 
18 pages section).

The /Vocabulario/ contains a number of Sanskrit entries, probably 
totalling more than 800 as per my current estimation (which is an 
extrapolation, based on my partial entering of 30% of the text) and I 
suspect (on the basis of another extrapolation) that approximately one 
hundred of those entries are explicitely acknowledged as being 
"grantha", as shown by the use of the abbreviation "gr." (see the sample 
image, which contains the entry 2Rj "அ ப # வ ம" (apāvam, for abhāvam), 
with is the 10th entry (j) on the Right (R) column of page 2.

In case the .png image is rejected by the server, the text of the entry is:

« அ ப # வ ம - Nada, negaçaõ de // realidade. gr. »


In connection with that research, I would like to know the answer to the 
following questions:

(1) What are the Sanskrit-Latin dictionaries from the same 
period?(printed books or MSS)

Is there any Sanskrit-Portuguese dictionary?
(printed books or MSS)

Thanks in advance for any piece of information concerning the state of 
affairs which existed before the recent period which has sometimes been 
referred to on this list as "200 years of Indology".

-- Jean-Luc Chevillard (CNRS, HTL, Paris)

https://univ-paris-diderot.academia.edu/JeanLucChevillard

https://twitter.com/JLC1956



