+++
title = "208 N. Ganesan"
date = "1998-05-11"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1998-May/012163.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1998-May/012163.html)

S. Krishna writes as the concluding line:
*This leads me to believe that the name of the place was just kUDala
* [...]
*kUDala and kappaDi( a nearby town) the Gods were
*called kUDalasangamEZvara and kappaDisangamEzvara which is now being
                                                       ---------------
*interpreted as that the place names THEMSELVES were kUDalasangama and
----------------------------------
*kappaDisangama...


My earlier posting is clear enough. The place names are
NOT interpreted as kuuDalasangama NOW. They are that
way for atleast ONE THOUSAND years! There exists pieces
from a tamil pirapantam (ciRRilakkiyam). The book is
called kuuDalacaGkamattup paraNi in which clearly
place name is kuuDalasangama. This is a
hybrid dravidian/IA name. IF kuuDala were the placename,
the paraNi would have been kuuDalap paraNi or
kuuDal paraNi, but this is not the case.
BTW, maturai in sangam classics
is refered to as kuuDal all the time.

In Kannada also, the place name is kuuDalasangama.
(The place name is not kuuDala).
> From the book in which the vacana translaton occurs.
AKR, Speaking of "Siva, Penguin, 1973, p. 62
"In kuuDalasangama, he found a guru, with whom he
studied the Vedas and other religious texts"
I would think in Kannada also, there is a long
tradition of kuuDalasangama as the place name.

Regards,
N. Ganesan


Earlier N. Ganesan wrote
<<There was a suggestion that kuuDala is the place name and
sangamesvara refers to the God's name.kuuDala samngama is a place name.
How do we know this?There were two Chola era prabandhams of war, now
lost except for a few verses and their names occur in medieval
commentaries.The 10th century paraNi prabandhams are called
1) koppattup paraNi and 2) kuuDala sangamattup paraNi.
Hence, koppam and kuuDala sangamam will refer to place names.
AND, kuuDala sangamam is hybrid name.This may very well be the case of
BelgAm too.>>



