+++
title = "219 N. Ganesan"
date = "1998-05-14"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1998-May/012245.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1998-May/012245.html)

Earlier, Dr. R. Zydenbos wrote:
*"Kuu.dalasa:ngama" is of course a hybrid tautological name. As has
* been pointed out earlier, it _is_ topographical (and there are
* Kannada sources for finding out that, ...)

Just some additional data.

About 15 Chola inscriptions starting from Aditya I's days
says the place name is "kuuDalasangamam". Please check
the several volumes of South Indian Inscriptions
of ASI.

I remember seeing kuuDalasangama as tautological in
tamil version of medieval age Basava purANam.

"vruSapEntra vijayam allatu nantikEsvaravijayam ennum
vacava purANam. itu SRImat nAki ceTTiyAr iyaRRiya uraiyuTan.
cennai: kurupacava etc., 1931, 934 p."


We seek evidence from Greek sources for many things
Indian. The two South Dravidian tongues, kannada
and tamil afterall are not that apart.

Hope Dr. Zydenbos turns out to be the Zvelebil for
Kannada letters. I will definitey buy his books.
An overview, lexicon of kannada literature,
a book on raga.le poems. Would love to see
the comparison with tamil saiva texts, a study
on Purandara ViTTala, MuddaNa's Ramayanam
written in 19th (?) century in an archaic ha.le kannada
style, ....

Regards,
N. Ganesan

************************************

S. Krishna writes as the concluding line:
*This leads me to believe that the name of the place was just kUDala
* [...]
*kUDala and kappaDi( a nearby town) the Gods were
*called kUDalasangamEZvara and kappaDisangamEzvara which is now being
                                                       ---------------
*interpreted as that the place names THEMSELVES were kUDalasangama and
----------------------------------
*kappaDisangama...

My earlier posting is clear enough. The place names are
NOT interpreted as kuuDalasangama NOW. They are that
way for atleast ONE THOUSAND years! There exists pieces
from a tamil pirapantam (ciRRilakkiyam). The book is
called kuuDalacaGkamattup paraNi in which clearly
place name is kuuDalasangama. This is a
hybrid dravidian/IA name. IF kuuDala were the placename,
the paraNi would have been kuuDalap paraNi or
kuuDal paraNi, but this is not the case.
BTW, maturai in sangam classics
is refered to as kuuDal all the time.

In Kannada also, the place name is kuuDalasangama.
(The place name is not kuuDala).
> From the book in which the vacana translaton occurs.
AKR, Speaking of "Siva, Penguin, 1973, p. 62
"In kuuDalasangama, he found a guru, with whom he
studied the Vedas and other religious texts"
I would think in Kannada also, there is a long
tradition of kuuDalasangama as the place name.

Regards,
N. Ganesan

Earlier N. Ganesan wrote
<<There was a suggestion that kuuDala is the place name and
sangamesvara refers to the God's name.kuuDala samngama is a place name.
How do we know this?There were two Chola era prabandhams of war, now
lost except for a few verses and their names occur in medieval
commentaries.The 10th century paraNi prabandhams are called
1) koppattup paraNi and 2) kuuDala sangamattup paraNi.
Hence, koppam and kuuDala sangamam will refer to place names.
AND, kuuDala sangamam is hybrid name.This may very well be the case of
BelgAm too.>>



