+++
title = "329 DR.S.KALYANARAMAN"
date = "1997-11-28"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1997-November/010024.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1997-November/010024.html)

Internet is a more user-friendly (and less expensive!) medium than
microfilm...

I was happy to see the beautiful palm leaf samples on the internet at:

http://www.library.upenn.edu/etext/sasia/skt-mss/index.html

The University of Pennsylvania holds the largest number of South Asian
manuscripts in the Norh America. Here are some examples of them. There
will be more to come.

                    K.sauravidhi
                    Raatriisuukta (from RV)
                    Vaajinabhak.savicaara
                    Tithinir.naya
                    'Siitalaastotra from Skandapurana
                    Amba.daparivraajakakathana
                    Nyaayamakaranda
                    Prayaagasnaanavidhi

I request the UPenn to put up more samples soon. This may hopefully induce
other institutions worldwide to do the same.


 On Fri, 28 Nov 1997, DR.S.KALYANARAMAN wrote and Prof. WUJASTY
replied:

> A cursory glance at the Catalagorum of Prof. K. Raja of Univ. of
> Madras or the mss. list in Univ. of Pennsylvania, will indicate that
> many mss. have already been rescued.
>
> Let us hope that these will be displayed soon for free dissemination
> on the internet to promote further
> indological scholarship.

The entire Penn. collection of Sanskrit manuscripts was published years
ago on microfiche, and has thus been publicly available on very easy
terms for a long, long time.  This is quite apart from the fact that
anyonewriting to Penn could get an individual microfilm without difficulty.

All the best,
Dominik



