+++
title = "189 Worldwide Indian Network"
date = "1995-10-20"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1995-October/003437.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1995-October/003437.html)

   This is an invitation from the Worldwide Indian Network (WIN) 
to all Indians to explore with us the possibility of developing 
effective and successful businesses.  Our goal is to lay the 
foundation of an organization within WIN that will facilitate 
communication and collaboration among people of varying skills 
and resources.  We intend to foster an entrepreneurial spirit 
among participants leading to the formation of new business 
enterprises.

   During the past half century, Indian politicians have talked 
themselves into oblivion.  Nevertheless, in each election they 
continue to get mandates from the people to lead the country in 
the same direction.  Meanwhile, Japanese workers have built an 
industrial marvel from a heap of ashes.  Today, Japanese 
productivity is 12 times that of India, and its per capita gross 
national product (GNP) is 105 times greater.

   Following Japan's example would be a good way for India to 
industrialize herself.  We have the main ingredient -- India has 
the second largest reservoir of trained manpower in the world 
(behind the United States).  What we seem to lack is an 
entrepreneurial tradition which enables us to take risks, and a 
spirit of cooperation which will make teamwork possible.

   Henry Ford is the idol of many businessmen; 66 million people 
around the world drive Ford cars every day.  Conrad Hilton is 
another idol of many businessmen; 110 thousand people around the 
world sleep in Hilton Hotels each night.  What we do not know is 
how many Fords and how many Hiltons failed to realize their 
ambitions.  Statistics show that 6.0% of start-ups in the United 
States fail in the first two years.  And only 62.4% of new 
businesses are still in existence ten years later.  We 
definitely don't want to fall into the wrong side of that 
statistic.

   To this end, we need an organization that will bring together 
individuals with complementary skills and a common interest in 
establishing businesses.  Unless one has the right combination 
of technical and managerial skills along with a sufficient 
amount of money, the odds are against successfully establishing 
a solo business.  If one has technical and managerial skills but 
lacks financial resources, one will need an investor to support 
any potential venture.  At the same time, investors and venture 
capitalists need to draw upon people with technical and 
managerial skills.

   In addition to the satisfaction we entrepreneurs would 
achieve for ourselves in establishing businesses, we would also 
contribute something to our country.  The formation of 
businesses creates jobs; in turn, the creation of jobs fuels 
economic growth and prosperity.  A healthy economy can relieve 
the misery and anguish of people by providing them with decent 
jobs and can enable them to prosper by offering affordable goods 
and services.

   Productivity -- efficiency or output per person -- will 
definitely take an upward turn once we form businesses.  First, 
when a person owns his own business, he will be completely 
committed to its success: he will have a heightened sense of 
responsibility, he will allow himself no excuses.  Moreover, a 
creative person, when working for someone else, is not always 
free to explore his own sense of creativity.  As a business 
owner, that same person is free to decide the best way to 
accomplish his objectives.  He will then act with creativity, 
good judgment, and with full awareness that the success of his 
business depends primarily on his efforts.

   Consumers have an enormous amount to gain if productivity 
improves.  Efficient production leads to better goods at lower 
prices, and lower prices mean people can have more: more food, 
more clothes, more leisure, more variety, more of everything 
money can buy.

   Each time the Government of India has devalued the currency, 
the leaders(?) have come up with a very persuasive argument for 
the illiterate masses: "Exports will improve substantially," 
they claim.  But the facts prove otherwise.  From 1979 to 1993 
the rupee has lost three-quarter of its value -- it has 
depreciated from Rs 8.076 to Rs 31.364 to a dollar.  During this 
period the cumulative current account deficit of India amounts 
to $64.11 billion.  In the same fifteen years, the yen has 
doubled in value -- it has appreciated from Y219.140 to Y111.198 
to a dollar.  Japan's cumulative current account surplus for 
this period amounts to $764.47 billion.  What the demagogues in 
India fail to realize -- or lack the courage to face -- is that 
the key to improved economic conditions is PRODUCTIVITY.  Only 
when productivity increases, do employment, incomes, and exports 
rise.  Productivity growth is the engine that drives the long-
run improvement of living standards.

   Two kinds of investors -- those who invest their skills and 
labor, and those who invest their money -- will compose this 
organization.  Hopefully, each participant will contribute both 
kinds of investments.

   Those who invest their skills and labor will benefit in many 
ways.  First, they will eliminate the middleman -- the employer 
-- and receive the total benefits of their labor.  If the 
employer pays an employee one dollar he does so only if he makes 
at least two dollars out of the employee.  Moreover, because the 
entrepreneurs will be their own bosses, they will derive greater 
personal satisfaction from their work, and they will have 
control over their own destiny.

   The investors of money will also benefit in several ways.  
They will receive a higher return on their savings.  If a bank 
pays 5% interest, it is certainly making at least that amount 
for itself.  By eliminating the middleman -- the bank -- and 
investing directly in businesses, the investors receive the full 
benefit of their savings.  Furthermore, they will own a portion 
of a business, rather than simply giving money over to a bank 
for the bank to invest.  Thus the investors will have direct 
control over their money.

   Finally, the channeling of funds from individuals who have 
savings to others with productive investment opportunities will 
be a tremendous boost for the economy and to the parties 
involved in the exchange.  Each investor will have the great 
satisfaction of knowing he is promoting the economic success of 
India.

   If you are willing to help your fellow Indians in forming 
businesses, please send an e-mail to win at neu.edu.  Use the word 
BUSINESS in the subject line, and your e-mail address (in small 
letters only), home zip code, full name and telephone number(s) 
in the body using the following format:

bhalder at lynx.neu.edu : 02128 : Mr Biswanath Halder H617-567-0667





