+++
title = "295 L.S.Cousins"
date = "2000-07-16"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2000-July/022010.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2000-July/022010.html)

Dominik,

I can understand why, but I think you might have over-reacted here.

'Deranged' doesn't necessarily mean 'insane'; see OED. It can just
mean 'disorganized' 'caused to act irregularly'. Used with 'from' it
must have such a meaning. You are reading too much medical
terminology into the post :-)

It seems a fairly objective description of the behaviour of someone
who leaves, returns and then leaves again with long announcements !

In general, however, please do clamp down. There is some rather silly
malicious posting which serves no useful purpose and is very boring
to have to keep reading. Unfortunately, there is no relationship
between brilliance of scholarship and maturity of personality. In
particular, it would be nice if people would draw a line under the
past discussions and not keep referring back to what this or that
person did or didn't do.

Lance Cousins

>On Sat, 15 Jul 2000, Shrisha Rao wrote:
>
>>  That, perhaps, is the biggest rub.  While Mr. Elst appears to be so
>>  deranged from normal scholarly behavior that nothing worthwhile could ever
>>  be expected of him, it is surely as well for his critics to keep their
>>  compos mentis.
>
>I'm afraid that I do not tolerate public remarks of this kind about other
>members of this list.  Your membership is being cancelled forthwith.
>
>I have REPEATEDLY urged members to be polite about each other.  I insist
>on this.
--
HEADINGTON, UK

CURRENT EMAIL ADDRESS:
selwyn at ntlworld.com



