+++
title = "144 Bh.Krishnamurti"
date = "1999-03-12"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1999-March/016284.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1999-March/016284.html)

In the stanza challapallair varayogaratnaiH, challapalla seems to refer to a
practitioner of varayoga- (?one of the aayurvedayogas); this is not an
onomatopoetic expression like the Dravidin words given by you. In aayurveda
is there a yoga called varayoga? Or does vara mean 'good, leading'? Is it a
common noun or a proper noun? Is the ch aspirated c?  The s'loka seems to
say that varayoga cannot match rasendrayoga even one/100crores.The syntax is
not clear. What does sa in the second stanza refer to?
Bh.K.

At 11:57 12/03/99 +0000, you wrote:
>This topic has thrown light on a long-standing question I have had.  In
>manuscripts of the unpublished Rasendramangala by pseudo-Nagarjuna (see
>Ambix 31 (1984), David White, _The Alchemical Body_ (1996), passim) there
>is an expression "challapalla" as in
 >        sarvo.sadhaanaaM kriyayopayogata.h
>        sa challapallair varayogaratnai.h
>        naayaati tulyaM varayogibhuutale
>        rasendrayogaac chatako.tir aM"sata.h
>
>[unedited MS transcripts]
>
>        1101 Ta. kalipali, kalipili uproar, disturbance, quarrel, wrangle.
>
>with similar words in Kannada (galabali, galabili, galibili), Tulu
>(galibili galabu), Telugu (galibili, galaba).
>
>It seems that this is a cluster of related words, perhaps from an
>onomatapoeic origin.  I think my "challapalla" and Gansten's "kalaapa" may
>me part of the same general family.  Perhaps we could call these "rhubarb"
>words.
___________________________
Bhadriraju Krishnamurti
H.No. 12-13-1233, "Bhaarati"
Street 9, Tarnaka
Hyderabad 500017 (A.P.), India
Telephone:40-7019665
E-mail:<BHK at HD1.VSNL.NET.IN>



