+++
title = "182 d.wujastyk at ucl.ac.uk"
date = "1995-11-30"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1995-November/003711.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1995-November/003711.html)


>I would  particularly recommend : Biblia Impex, 2/18 Ansari Road, New 
> Delhi

I was rather surprised last year when I visited Biblia Impex for the
first time, to discover that the proprietor holds strongly-felt
right-wing Hindu fundamentalist views.  He also publishes many
well-known titles such as "The Myth of the Aryan Invasion of India",
the two-volume "Hindu Temples: What Happened to them" by Sita Ram Goel
et al. (which lists mosques across India that are claimed to be built
out of the ruin of Hindu temples, and which should therefore be torn
down), and Koenraad Elst's "Ram Janmabhoomi vs. Babri Masjid: A case
study in Hindu-Muslim conflict" which has already been discussed on
INDOLOGY ("Pretending to be a 'persecuted and frightened minority,'
Muslims have wrested one concession after another from politicians who
swear by what passes for secularism in this country." -- blurb).  

Many books of this ilk appear under the "Aditya Prakashan" and "Voice
of India" publishing lables, which are imprints of Biblia Impex.

Actually, I rather liked the proprietor, though I couldn't disagree
more with
his political philosophy.  We had a stand-up row in his shop on this
topic, but parted very amicably (only in India!).  However, with the
wide choice of excellent book dealers in Delhi (Munshram Manoharlal,
Motilal Banarsidass, etc.), I find I personally prefer not to give my
custom to a business which funds VHP/BJP propaganda.

Dominik

Dr Dominik Wujastyk



> From ANDREWC at cc1.uca.edu 30 95 Nov CST6CDT 12:12:39
Date:         30 Nov 95 12:12:39 CST6CDT
From: Andrew Cohen <ANDREWC at cc1.uca.edu>
Subject:      Re: Booksellers

> I would  particularly recommend : Biblia Impex, 2/18 Ansari Road, New Delhi
> - 110 002 ; fax (11) 3282047.
>
> Regards,
> Raffaele Torella

    If you are making your way to Ansari Road, then I recommend you
also see another respected publisher and distributor:
Manohar Publishers and Distributors
2/6 Ansari Rd
Daryaganj, New Delhi 110 002
tel: 3275162, 3262796; fax: 326 5162

Cheers
Andrew Cohen





