+++
title = "12 Jayandra Soni"
date = "2012-08-27"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2012-August/036913.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2012-August/036913.html)

Dear Fellow List Members,

With apologies for cross-postings,

It is a great pleasure for me to announce that the IASS adjudicators  
for the DK Award for the outstanding doctoral thesis on Sanskrit  
2009-11 have now concluded their assessments and deliberations and  
agreed to make the award to:

Dr Himal  Trikha for his thesis submitted to the University of Vienna:  
"Schluss  mit ungueltigen Perspektiven! Polemik gegen das Vaisesika in  
der Satyasasanapariksa des Digambara Vidyanandin vor dem Hintergrund   
des kritischen Perspektivismus der Jainas".

(Published as Perspektivismus und Kritik. Das pluralistische  
Erkenntnismodell der Jainas angesichts der Polemik gegen das Vaisesika  
in Vidyanandins Satyasasanapariksa, Publications of the De Nobili  
Research Library edited by Gerhard Oberhammer, Utz Podzeit and Karin  
Preisendanz, Volume XXXVI. Wien: Sammlung de Nobili ... Universität  
Wien, 2012.)

The DK Award for the outstanding doctoral thesis on Sanskrit was  
inaugurated in 2006 at the World Sanskrit Conference in Edinburgh. The  
IASS thanks Mr Ramesh Mittal of DK Agencies personally and DK as a  
firm for supporting Sanskrit scholarship in this generous way (one  
thousand dollars worth of books from DK Agencies). (Please ask for the  
2012 Brochure containing details.)

For the years 2006 to 2008 it was conferred on Dr Wendy J.  
Phillips-Rodríguez for her dissertation submitted to the University of  
Cambridge: Electronic Techniques of Textual Analysis and Edition for  
Ancient Texts: an Exploration of the Phylogeny of the Dyutaparvan.

The deadline for applying for the next DK Award for theses on Sanskrit  
submitted in the period 2012-2014 is 31st January 2015.

With congratulations to the winner,
yours sincerely,
Jayandra Soni

------------------------------
Jayandra Soni, Ph.Dd. (BHU and McMaster)

Secretary General, International Association of Sanskrit Studies
Elected January 2012 in Delhi
http://www.sanskrit.nic.in/IASS/HOME_page.htm



