+++
title = "242 N. Ganesan"
date = "2000-12-15"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2000-December/024435.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2000-December/024435.html)

>This has been educative, but I couldn't find
>naalikam in the online Tamil lexicon, at
>http://www.uni-koeln.de/phil-fak/indologie/tamil/otl_search.html.

Search for "nAlikam", three items will pop up. One entry will be:
*otl nAlikam nAlikam 02 crow*
nAlikam = kaakkai is a common item in Tamil dictionaries
in print as well. As you know, nAlikam = water buffalo
both in Tamil and Sanskrit.

>But perhaps, it is not right to link -aNa to -aNNa as in elder brother?

Why not??? There more semantic field for the tamil root aN-,
not just elder brother. I already gave:
<<<
-aNa like tamil -aNan is Dravidian; Names like
MuttaNan, RaamaNan, KaruppaNan, RangaNan, PeriyaNan, Cin2n2aNan,
PaccaiyaNan, KongaNan, CembaNan, ... are common tamil male names.
If one wants an attestation prior to sAyaNa (which is an
'akam'/'interior' name and, maadhava which is a 'puRam'/
'exterior' name, if Burnell-Cowell theory is correct) consult
CilappatikAram. The aTiyArkku nallAr wrote his commentary
under the patronage of "poppaNa kAGkEyan" . Without
aTiyArkku-nallAr's work, we would have missed precious lot on ancient
Tamil music, ATiyArkkunallAr thanks PoppaNan profusely in the pAyiram:

   "kURRait tavirttu aruL poppaNa kAGkEyarkOn2 aLitta
    cORRuc cerukku allavO tamiz mUn2Ru urai colvittatE!"

In literature, pAmpaNan/pAppaNan/poppaNan can be found.
pAppu/pAmpu/poppu all refer to snake, and hence these
names refer to Shiva Nagalamkarar.
>>>

The root, aN- means "upper, elder, high" etc. in Tamil.
> From Kampan, an usage where "aNa" is used. There are
several centuries older references than Kamban as well.

Ar, aNA! un2 uyirai, ajncAtE, kONTu akan2RAr? atu elAm niRka,
mAran2Ar vali ATTam tavirntArO? kuLirntAn2O, matiyam en2pAn2?
'kollAta maittun2an2aik kon2RAy" en2Ru atukuRittuk koTumai cUzntu,
pallAlE itaz atukkum koTumpAvi neTumpArap pakai tIrntALO?

--------------

Few other questions in my mind that I need help from Indologists are:
Is "nAra" as 'water' a well attested IIr, IE word?
If so, what are the cognates?

Or, it is just that "nAra" = water was "invented"
to give a theological explanation to explain nArAyaNa
as from water?

If you can, pl. explain what Emeneau says on
the word sAi as in sAi bAbA. But Puttaparthi
is an incarnation of older Shirdi Saibaba, no??
Then, sAi in sAibaba is from the north India.

Are there attestations in old Kannada for
svAmi as sAi? Are they cited by Gowda-Emeneau?
Usually, in tamil jaina works, (who had contacts
with Kannada lands), svAmi is rendered cAmi,
and never as "sAi". Kannada usage would be
parallel, isn't it?

Also, where can I find Burnell's forward for
vamsha-brahmana? Who wrote/edited that book?
Is it in any library with Burnell's foreward?
Is vamsha brahmana published in a book form?
or, as an article? (about 150 years ago.)

Regards,
N. Ganesan






_____________________________________________________________________________________
Get more from the Web.  FREE MSN Explorer download : http://explorer.msn.com



