+++
title = "100 tccahill"
date = "2008-07-08"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2008-July/031797.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2008-July/031797.html)

Hi Loriliai!

   I've got Maurer's grammar on my hard drive. Been meaning
to convert it to a unicode font. The files I have are old MS
Word files generated by a Mac.  The devanaagari font would
have to be converted too. I hesistated to let the list know
this since I use printouts of the grammar on the Q.T.  Don't
want to publicly announce that I'm violating copyright! Of
course, when the book is virtually unavailable I feel pretty
self-righteous.

   How are things in Boulder? We're just back from
Pondicherry where I spent the sabbatical. Were you in India
this year?

best,
Tim



----- Original Message Follows -----
From: Loriliai Biernacki <Loriliai.Biernacki at COLORADO.EDU>
To: INDOLOGY at liverpool.ac.uk
Subject: Re: Contact address
Date: Mon, 7 Jul 2008 15:39:30 -0600

> > Maurer's course seems really good (but I haven't used it
> > in the classroom), and I've regretted for years that it
> > can't be used widely because of the high pricing.
> > 
> > I wonder if it would be worth getting up a petition to
> > the publishers?  If someone wanted to do that, I'd
> > gladly sign. 
> > Best,
> > Dominik
> 
> I used it with students one year and it worked quite well.
> The price was too prohibitive to continue with it. I'd
> also be very happy to sign any petition to a publisher.
> All best,
> Loriliai
> 
> Loriliai Biernacki
> -- 
> Prof. Biernacki
> Associate Professor
> University of Colorado at Boulder
> UCB 292
> Boulder, CO 80309
> 303-735-4730
> Loriliai.Biernacki at colorado.edu
>
http://www.colorado.edu/ReligiousStudies/faculty/loriliai.biernacki.html



