+++
title = "194 N. Ganesan"
date = "1998-12-09"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1998-December/014529.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1998-December/014529.html)

The following has relevance to the question
"Where is Panini inspired?".

The earliest Tamil sangam texts  refer to 'Siva
as God under the banyan tree. Those Pre-Pallava references from
Tamil sangam texts on 'Siva under the banyan tree:
a) aal amar kaTavuL an2n2a nin2 celvam - puRam
b) kaTavuL aalattu taTavu cin2ai pal pazam - puRam
c) tAtu eru maRukin2 A puRam tINTum
   neTu vIz iTTa kaTavuL aalattu
   uku pali aruntiya toku viral kAkkai - naRRiNai
d) Al amar celvan2 aNi caal makan2 vizaa - kalittokai
e) Al kezu kaTavuL putalva, mAl varai
   malai makaL makan2E! - tiru muruku.
In 4-5th centuries, CilappatikAram and Manimekalai
refer to dakSiNAmUrti.

Later, 'Siva teaching vedas under the banyan tree occurs
in Tevaram many times. According to Tevaram, 'Siva is the
inner meaning of all authors. Some
dakSiNAmUrti images are seated in rAjalIlAsana
similar to Avalokitezvara images. As dakSiNAmUrti
is the only Hindu image (that is known to me)
shown in deep contemplation, does it show
Buddhist influences?

On 8 dec 1998, Southeast Asian connections
during Pallava era between Potalaka, ziva,
avalokitezvara, agastya were given. (cf. Indology archives)

Regards,
N. Ganesan

Pl. see Postings under the title dakSiNAmUrti also
in Indology archives.



______________________________________________________
Get Your Private, Free Email at http://www.hotmail.com



