+++
title = "23 a.murugaiyan"
date = "2020-09-10"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2020-September/053307.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2020-September/053307.html)

Dear Colleagues,
There is also a review by Dilip K. Chakrabarti on K. Rajan's book:
"K. Rajan, Early Writing System: A Journey from Graffiti to Brahmi. Madurai:
Pandya Nadu Centre for Archaeological Research, 2015, XXII + 439 pp.,
`2290 (Hardback).
DOI: 10.1177/0376983617694685"
Best regards
Murugaiyan


Le 10/09/2020 à 19:50, Sudalaimuthu Palaniappan via INDOLOGY a écrit:
>
> In this lecture at Harvard University in 2016, Prof. Nayanjot Lahiri 
> seems to support Rajan’s dates.
>
> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R6545ZZ2LCo
>
> Regards,
>
> Palaniappan
>
> *From: *Sudalaimuthu Palaniappant <palaniappa at aol.com>
> *Date: *Thursday, September 10, 2020 at 12:47 PM
> *To: *"Tieken, H.J.H." <H.J.H.Tieken at hum.leidenuniv.nl>, Indology List 
> <indology at list.indology.info>
> *Subject: *Re: [INDOLOGY] Brāhmī in Sri Lanka
>
> Dear Herman,
>
> Have you looked at the discussion of Tamil Brahmi inscriptions in K. 
> Rajan’s “Early Writing System: A Journey from Graffiti to Brahmi”, 
> Pandya Nadu Centre for Historical Research, Madurai, 2015? See pp. 
> 404-405. Table 8.2 on p. 407 has six pot sherds with Tamil Brahmi 
> dated between 4^th to 6^th century BCE.
>
> Rajan states on p. 400, “The close observations of Damiḻi 
> (Tamiḻ-Brāhmī) and Sri Lankan Brāhmī (Prakrit-Brāhmī) suggest they had 
> close relations with each other in terms of paleography, probably due 
> to geographical proximity, than the Aśokan-Brāhmī.”
>
> Regards,
>
> Palaniappan
>
> *From: *INDOLOGY <indology-bounces at list.indology.info> on behalf of 
> Indology List <indology at list.indology.info>
> *Reply-To: *"Tieken, H.J.H." <H.J.H.Tieken at hum.leidenuniv.nl>
> *Date: *Thursday, September 10, 2020 at 5:17 AM
> *To: *Indology List <indology at list.indology.info>
> *Subject: *[INDOLOGY] Brāhmī in Sri Lanka
>
> Dear List members,
>
> In "Pasage to India? Anuradhapura and the Early Use of the Brahmi 
> Script" (Cambridge Archaeological Journal 6/1 (1996), pp. 
> 73-97)Coningham et al. conclude that the Brāhmī script was used on 
> Sri Lanka by tradersat least a century earlier than in "India" by 
> Aśoka. His dating of the inscribed pottery shreds in question is based 
> on theradiocarbon method. In fact, a large part of the article is 
> dedicated to a discussion of this method. What I would like to know is 
> if there has been a reaction to Coningham's conclusions. Salomon 
> (1998)does not discuss them and von Hinüber (1990) and Falk (1993) 
> could not.
>
> With kind regards, Herman Tieken
>
> Herman Tieken
>
> Stationsweg 58
>
> 2515 BP Den Haag
>
> The Netherlands
>
> 00 31 (0)70 2208127
>
> website: hermantieken.com <http://hermantieken.com/>
>
> _______________________________________________ INDOLOGY mailing list 
> INDOLOGY at list.indology.info indology-owner at list.indology.info 
> (messages to the list's managing committee) 
> http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options 
> or unsubscribe)
>
>
> _______________________________________________
> INDOLOGY mailing list
> INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
> indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing committee)
> http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)




-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20200910/8e63677e/attachment.htm>
