+++
title = "29 l.m.fosse at easteur-orient.uio.no"
date = "1996-04-03"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1996-April/004630.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1996-April/004630.html)


>>Discussion of the brahmodya among Vedicists is fairly extensive, beginning
>>with an important article by Renou [in collaboration with Silburn] "Sur la
>>notion de brahman" in JA 237, 1949 [the second half of this article is
>>devoted to the brahmodya, which Renou considers to be a crucial Vedic
>>practice. Kuiper wrote an article on "The Ancient Aryan Verbal Contest" in
>>1960, in IIJ 4.  More recently Witzel has written an article that mentions
>>the brahmodya frequently, "The Case of the Shattered Head" [Studien zur
>>Indologie und Iranistik, 1987], which apparently has triggered a response
>>by Insler, "The Shattered Head Split and the Epic tale of ShakuntalA," BEI
>>1989-90 [I have not seen this article].

Would somebody please tell which journal the initials BEI refer to?

Thank you!

LM



Lars Martin Fosse
Research Fellow
Department of East European
and Oriental Studies
P. O. Box 1030, Blindern
N-0315 OSLO Norway

Tel: +47 22 85 68 48
Fax: +47 22 85 41 40

E-mail: l.m.fosse at easteur-orient.uio.no




> From P.Friedlander at wellcome.ac.uk 03 96 Apr CDT 13:07:00
Date: 03 Apr 96 13:07:00 CDT
From: P.Friedlander at wellcome.ac.uk
Subject: debates
Reply-To: P.Friedlander at wellcome.ac.uk
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=US-ASCII

Some of you might find the gosti ('debate') genre of Hindi literature 
interesting in this regard. Gostis are quite common in manuscripts, although 
I think little published. Typically they consist of debates between persons 
such as Kabir and Nanak, Gorakhanatha and Kabir, Kabir and Raidas etc. 
However, they also include debates between persons who were not 
contemporaries and historical and mythical persons (such as Kabir, 
Gorakhnath and Ganesha). They are mostly parts of hagiographical traditions. 
Still they show many features of popular perceptions of what constituted 
debate in northern India from the 16th century onwards 
Peter Friedlander




