+++
title = "95 R. P. Jain"
date = "2017-02-02"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2017-February/045231.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2017-February/045231.html)

Can you tell me who's the publisher of the book.

Rajeev jain

Sent from my iPhone

> On 03-Feb-2017, at 2:32 AM, George Thompson via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
> 
> Dear Boris,
> 
> I am glad to hear that this project which you have worked so hard to complete is now published.
> 
> Congratulations!
> 
> George
> 
>> On Thu, Feb 2, 2017 at 1:54 PM, Boris Oguibenine via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
>> Dear Colleagues,
>> 
>> I would like to announce the publication of this book appeared just at the end of 2016:
>> 
>> Boris Oguibénine. A Descriptive Grammar of Buddhist Sanskrit. The language of the Textual Tradition of the Mahāsāṃghika-Lokottoravādins. General Introduction. Sound Patterns. Sandhi Patterns, 484 pp., 2016. 
>> 
>> Journal of Indo-European Studies Monograph 64, Institute for the Study of Man,  Washington DC.
>> 
>>  
>> 
>> ISBN Hardback: 978-0-9983669-0-6
>> 
>> ISBN Paperback: 978-0-9983669-1-3
>> 
>>  
>> 
>>  Summary
>> 
>>  
>> 
>>  This book is the first detailed description of the phonetics of Buddhist Sanskrit as shown in the textual tradition of the Buddhist sect known as Mahāsāṃghika-Lokottoravādins. The texts use the language which undoubtedly bears the marks of Middle Indian influence,  mostly of Pāli. However,  as widely recognized,  this language is not identical with Pāli or any other Middle Indian dialect. F. Edgerton’s pioneer grammar of this language (New Haven: Yale University Press,  1953),  which he called “Buddhist Hybrid Sanskrit” allows only a limited space to its phonetics. The present book contains an analysis of the phonetic evidence of all available texts of the Mahāsāṃghika-Lokottoravādins. Several of them have been published after Edgerton’s demise,  and their data had necessarily to be incorporated in our analysis.
>> 
>>           Special emphasis is made on the fact that this language does not owe its shape to either Middle Indian dialect,  but is a language on its own,  with its own peculiar structural constraints and features.
>> 
>>           Particularly,  to account for its mixed nature,  all occurrences of sound and their sequences are thoroughly examined with special attention to the alternations taking place within the texts and their layers,  probably pointing to the language habits of the speakers of different Middle Indian dialects,  which contributed to the production of the textual tradition that stood in the midway between Hīnayāna’s and Mahāyāna’s texts.
>> 
>>        The intricate problem of sandhi patterns is also given much attention as it is generally believed that these patterns were subject to no constraints whatsoever.
>> 
>>            This volume on the phonetics should be followed by further volumes dedicated to morphological and syntactic patterns of this language
>> 
>> 
>> Boris OGUIBENINE
>> Professeur (émérite)
>> Université  de Strasbourg
>> 14, rue Descartes
>> BP 80010
>> F-67084 Strasbourg
>> France
>> 
>> 
>> 
>> _______________________________________________
>> INDOLOGY mailing list
>> INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
>> indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing committee)
>> http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)
> 
> _______________________________________________
> INDOLOGY mailing list
> INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
> indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing committee)
> http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20170203/3e489cb2/attachment.htm>
