+++
title = "44 Birendra Nath Prasad"
date = "2024-10-21"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2024-October/059747.html"
+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2024-October/059747.html)

Dear friends,I am happy to share the joy of the publication of my edited book titled ‘History, Economy and Religion: Mainland Southeast Asia. c. First Century CE—Fourteenth Century CE’ by ISEAS Publishing, Singapore, with the ISBN number 9789815203752. ISEAS Publishing is the official publication wing of the Yusof-Isaac Institute of Southeast Asian Studies, Singapore. Yusof-Isaac Institute of Southeast Asian Studies, was established by the Ministry of Education, Govt. of Singapore.This book was originally published by Manohar Publishers and Distributors, Delhi. ISEAS Publishing has published it in the Co-publication mode. Manohar edition is for sale in South Asia only. ISEAS edition is the global edition of the book.Contributors:Birendra Nath Prasad, Centre for Historical Studies, JNU, New Delhi, India.Monica L. Smith, Professor, Department of Anthropology, University of California, Los Angeles.Mai Bùi Diệu Linh, researcher at the Ash Center of the Harvard Kennedy School, University of Harvard.Nicolas Revire, Visiting Assistant Professor, Foscari University of Venice; and Research Fellow at The Art Institute of Chicago.Dominic Goodall, Professor (Directeur d’Études), École Française d’Extrême-Orient (‘French School of Asian Studies’), Paris.Sama Haq, Faculty/Director, Sushma Swaraj Institute of Foreign Service, Ministry of External Affairs, New Delhi, Govt. of India.Sunil Gupta, Visiting Scholar, Ghent University, Belgium; and former Curator, Allahabad Museum, Allahabad, India.Nguyễn Văn Quảng, Vice Dean of the Faculty of History, University of Sciences, Huế University, Vietnam.Do Truong Giang, Head of the Department of Information and International Cooperation, Institute of Imperial Citadel Studies, Vietnam Academy of Social Sciences, Hanoi.Tran Van Quyen, researcher at Thang Long University’s Thang Long Institute for Cognition and Education Studies, Hanoi.Nguyen Phuoc Bao Dan, researcher at the Hue branch of the Vietnam National Institute of Culture and Arts Studies, Hanoi.I thank ISEAS Publishing for bringing out the global edition of my second book (ISEAS has earlier published the global edition of another edited book of mine, titled ‘Maritime Southeast Asia: History, Culture and Religion). I also thank Manohar Publishers and Distributors for publishing my two edited books on Southeast Asia.Wish regardsDr Birendra Nath PrasadAssistant ProfessorCentre for Historical StudiesJawaharlal Nehru UniversityNew Delhi—110067, India
-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20241021/eb8559b8/attachment.htm>
