+++
title = "116 B. Schlerath"
date = "2000-11-13"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2000-November/023861.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2000-November/023861.html)

-----Ursprüngliche Nachricht-----
Von: Indology [mailto:INDOLOGY at LISTSERV.LIV.AC.UK]Im Auftrag von
Vidhyanath Rao
Gesendet: Montag, 13. November 2000 13:48
An: INDOLOGY at LISTSERV.LIV.AC.UK
Betreff: Re: Indo-Aryan words in Hurrian


> "Aruna" and "Urvana" must either reflect the pronunciation of Varuna
in a
> Hittite/Luwian mouth, or this was how these names were known.

Precisely, and the question is how to decide. The only argument for the
former is the circular `because that is the only one that makes sense in
Vedic'. [It is circular because the source of these names is the bone of
contention.]

An independent way to decide is to look at the allowed sound sequences
in the languages involved. On this ground, I find it hard to believe
that these reflect the pronunciation in Hittite or Luwian: Neither
initial w [or wa-] nor the sequence -ru- seems to be prohibited in these
two languages. I don't know anything about Hurrian, and I hoped that you
could shed some light about these sound sequences in it.

Regards
-Nath
I call attention to the last publication concerning this problem: O.
Carruba: Zur Überlieferung einiger Namen und >Appellativa der Arier von
Mitanni- a Luwian look" in: Indoarisch, Iranisch und die Indogermanistik ed.
by B. Forssman and R. Plath, Reichert Verlag Wiesbaden 2000, p. 51-68. Best
wishes Schlerath, Berlin



