+++
title = "104 L.S.Cousins"
date = "2000-11-08"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2000-November/023712.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2000-November/023712.html)

Stephen,

>I am not sure in what respect you say the above.  The problem with the
>tree ring dating (not dendrochronology) is that any number of other
>climatic causes could have resulted in the narrow growth rings used to
>date Thera and the ice-core are from Greenland where several other
>volcanic events nearer tere could have equally well caused the acidic
>deposits.  The Akrotiri on-site calibrated C14 data which I mentioned
>contradicts those findings anyway.

I don't think so. It is within the range of dates (+/-) for C14 at
that date. So the tree ring data and the C14 evidence essentially
coincide.

We may differ, but I am reluctant to accept that this is in the end a
plausible viewpoint.

>  > I have a copy of his book. It is well-presented and very readable.
>>  But very few, if any, specialists accept his position.
>I am glad you (apparently) enjoyed Rohl's book even if you do not
>agree with his conculsions. however he is no the only scholar to have
>questioned Egyptian (and thus most ME) chronology.

There is a long history of this. It goes back to the writings of
Velikovsky. I repeat that I don't think this has a significant
following among specialists.

Lance Cousins
--
HEADINGTON, UK

CURRENT EMAIL ADDRESS:
selwyn at ntlworld.com



