+++
title = "35 A.Cerulli"
date = "2011-01-28"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2011-January/035089.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2011-January/035089.html)

Dear Andrey,
Here are some more:

Bhattacharyya, Swasti. 2006. *Magical Progeny, Modern Technology: A Hindu
Bioethics of** **Assisted Reproductive Technology*. State University of New
York Press.

Das, Rahul Peter. 2003. *The Origin of the Life of a Human Being: Conception
and the Female According to Ancient** Indian Medical and Sexological
Literature*. Motilal Banarsidass.

Hara, Minoru. 1980. "A Note on the Buddha’s Birth Story." In *Indianisme et
Bouddhisme: Mélanges offerts à Mgr* * Étienne Lamotte*. Université
Catholique de Louvain.


Hüsken, Ute.2009. *Viṣṇu’s Children: Prenatal life-cycle rituals in South
India*. Harrassowitz Verlag.

 Kapani, Lakshmi. 1989a. "Note on the Garbha-Upaniṣad." In *Fragments for a
History of the Human Body*. Michel Feher, et al (eds). Zone 5, Part III.
Zone Books.



Kapani, Lakshmi, trans. 1989b. Upaniṣad of the Embryo. In *Fragments for a
History of the **Human Body*. Michel Feher, et al (eds). Zone 5, Part III.
Zone Books.

Sasson, Vanessa R. and June Marie Law (eds). 2008. *Imagining the Fetus: The
Unborn in Myth, Religion, and Culture*. Oxford Univ. Press.

Selby, Martha Ann. 2005. "Narratives of Conception, Gestation, and Labour in
Sanskrit Āyurvedic Texts." *Asian Medicine: Tradition and Modernity*, vol.
1, no. 2: 254-275.

Tewari, Premvati. 2003. *Āyurvedīya Prasūtitantra Evaṃ Strītoga*. 2 vols.
3rd Edition. Chaukhambha Orientalia.

Tewari, Premvati V. 1997. *Introduction to Kāśyapa-Saṃhitā*. Chaukhambha
Visvabharati.

Yamashita, Tsutomu. 1995. "Śārīrasthāna of the Āyurveda – A Comparative
Study." *Studies in the History of Indian** Thought*, vol. 7: 105-113.

Best,
Anthony Cerulli
Hobart and William Smith Colleges

On Fri, Jan 28, 2011 at 4:32 AM, Jonathan Silk <kauzeya at gmail.com> wrote:

> At the risk of being both slightly off topic and shamelessly
> self-promoting,
> one might also glance at my own  “Maternity Homes and Abandoned Children in
> Buddhist India.” *Journal of the American Oriental Society* 127/3: 297-314.
>
>
> > Dear all,
> > >
> > > I'm searching for publications (or any other academic input), which
> deal
> > or touch upon the topic of religious attitudes, rituals etc. concerning
> > conception/ embryonal development/ birth and early childhood in India
> (past
> > or present).
> > > I would be absolutely grateful for any hint or advice.
> > >
> > > best,
> > > Andrey Klebanov
> >
> > - - -- --- ----- -------- -------------
> > Will Tuladhar-Douglas
> > Anthropology of Environments and Religions
> > http://tending.to/garden
> >
>
>
>
>
> --
> J. Silk
> Instituut Kern / Universiteit Leiden
> Leiden University Institute for Area Studies, LIAS
> Johan Huizinga Building, Room 1.37
> Doelensteeg 16
> 2311 VL Leiden
> The Netherlands
>



