+++
title = "285 N. Ganesan"
date = "1998-02-16"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1998-February/010853.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1998-February/010853.html)

This from an old Indology posting. I think M. L. P. Patterson's
South Asian civilzations: A bibliographic synthesis and
Bibliography of Asian studies, annual volumes will have more
citations.

Regards,
N. Ganesan



**********************************8**************************************
Date: Mon, 04 Mar 1996 11:33:57 +0100 (MET)
From: JHOUBEN at rullet.LeidenUniv.nl
Subject: board-games: two articles

Two articles on "Sanskrit-studies and Board Games" appeared at a place where
Sanskritists interested in the subject will perhaps not start searching, viz.
in the IIAS Working Papers Series, vol. 3, New Approaches to Board Games
Research: Asian Origins and Future Perspectives. Editor: A.J. de Voogt.
Publisher: International Institute for Asian Studies, P.O. Box 9515, 2300 RA
Leiden.

The book contains the following parts:
I: Introducing Board Games; II: Descriptive Research and Board Games; III:
Archaeology and Board Games; IV: Sanskrit Studies and Board Games; V: Computer
Science and Board Games; VI: Philosophy and Board Games.

The articles in part IV are "The literary sources of Indian Chess and related
board games" by Andreas Bock-Raming, and "Antiquity of Indian Board Games - a
new approach" by C. Panduranga Bhatta. Unfortunately, the editor did not care
to get all diacritics of Sanskrit words right.

Jan Houben, research fellow IIAS



