+++
title = "188 H.M.Hubey"
date = "1998-11-07"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1998-November/014029.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1998-November/014029.html)

S.Kalyanaraman wrote:
>
> Mark wrote:[snip]>Very recently two articles in Science News and Science bear>
> on some of these discussions.> 1. About 12,000 ya the sea levels were about
> 300 feet lower.> That means that the Persian/Arab Gulf was probably dry land>
> and ditto for the Red Sea. That means that the region comprising> the East
> Coast of Africa, the Arabian Peninsula and parts of
> > India were one contiguous land mass, at least a contiguous
> > coastline. The Tigris and Euphrates probably flowed into the
> > Indian Ocean. [snip]
>
> Recently? When, which issues of the journals: Science News and Science?
> Was it, in any way, related the continental drift which is dated to millions
> of years ago? How was the date ca. 12k years ago arrived at?

The Science article (about sea levels) was within a couple of
months maybe a few weeks. The Black Sea article was also very recent
but in Science News( a few months or weeks). The river in Arabia
is years old, but it was in Science News.

> Thanks. Kalyan
>
> ____________________________________________________________________
> More than just email--Get your FREE Netscape WebMail account today at http://home.netscape.com/netcenter/mail

--
Best Regards,
Mark
-==-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
hubeyh at montclair.edu =-=-=-= http://www.csam.montclair.edu/~hubey
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
The information transmitted is intended only for the person or entity
to which it is addressed and may contain confidential and/or privileged
material.  Any review, retransmission, dissemination or other use of,
or taking of any action in reliance upon, this information by persons
or entities other than the intended recipient is prohibited. If you
received this in error, please contact the sender and delete the
material  from any computer.
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=



