+++
title = "193 Dr. Jai Maharaj"
date = "1997-06-16"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1997-June/008541.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1997-June/008541.html)

Namaste!  At 11:17 AM 6/16/97 BST, Mr B.Philip.Jonsson wrote:
>At 22:01 15.6.1997, Dr. Jai Maharaj wrote:
>>Namaste!
>>One observes that when persons such as the one whose
>>post appears below feel frustrated because, apparently,
>>they are not capable of discussing the subject at hand,
>>they resort to libel against others.  Is this the only
>>way they know how to feel good about themselves?
>>Pity, but help them.
>
>This is USENET stuff, and has no place on a serious mailing list!
>
>Make yourself capable of discussing the subject of scientific etymology by
>reading a basic textbook on historical linguistics (and allow me to
>recommend "Historical and Comparative Linguistics" by Raimo Anttila).  If
>you come back and show some real understanding of how the sound and meaning
>of words change, and of the complex interrelations of Iran and India, their
>cultures and languages, then maybe you will be taken seriously!
>
>Hint: as much respect as I have for the Words of the Buddha, or admiration
>for the art of the Yi Jing I sont look to them iot understand language
>change.  I look to the languages themselves!
>BPJ
>Sarvamangalam

The judgment "this is USENET stuff" is as objective a study
as another participant's "flights of fancy" froth.  Thus,
the contents of the list are indeed "USENET stuff" at the
hands of more than one person.  But to single one out for
target practice degenerates the list further, assuming that
"USENET stuff" is the low standard by which a so-called 
academician chooses to measures himself.  Dhanyavaad for
the foreign book recommendation, nevertheless. 

Jai Maharaj     http://www.flex.com/~jai     Om Shanti






