+++
title = "01 Javier Martinez Garcia"
date = "1997-10-01"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1997-October/009452.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1997-October/009452.html)

This message has been sent to several  Lists . Apologies for
cross-postings!
------------------------------

            6. International Conference about the Use of Computers
                     in Historical and Comparative Linguistics
                       Frankfurt a.M., 21.­24. October 1997

                                 2nd circular


      This is the second circular concerning the 6. International
Conference about the Use of Computers in
      Historical and Comparative Linguistics. It is being distributed to
all those who have registered for
      participation and contains:


            I. The preliminary conference programme
            II. A preliminary list of participants
            III. Information materials about Frankfurt


      The materials as enclosed here can also be found under the
following internet address (URL):
      http://titus.uni-frankfurt.de/curric/frankf-97b.html
      We look forward to meet you in Frankfurt!



                                     J.
Gippert                                F.J. Martínez García



      Preliminary Conference Programme


            Di. 21.10
            10:00 Begrüßung
            10:30 Josef Wallmannsberger -- Corpora travelling on a
shoestring: The «arte povera»
            of CD-Romance
            --
            11:30 Cirilo García Román -- La elaboración electrónica de
índices y concordancias de
            textos bilingües: soluciones prácticas a problemas técnicos.

            12:00 Fco. Javier Martínez García -- ??

            -- Mittagspause --


            14:30 Eva Maria Lill -- The future user of a dictionary -
will he be better informed than
            ever? The use of machine readable full texts and electronic
facsimiles in the making of
            the 'Deutsches Rechtswörterbuch'
            15:00 Klaus Bürger -- Flexionsmorphologie der deutschen
Verben der
            Gegenwartssprache. Entwicklung einer Datenbank im Rahmen der

            Natürlichkeitstheorie.
            16:00
            16:30


            Mi. 22.10
            10:00 Daniel Riaño Rufilanchas -- Análisis y etiquetado
sintáctico del corpus de los
            textos clásicos. Perspectivas y modelos.
            10:30 José Antonio Berenguer Sánchez -- Greek Lexicography &
Indoeuropean
            Lexicography and Internet
            --
            11:30 Arash Zeini -- Ein Digitales Iranisches Wörterbuch
            12:00 Jesús-Luis Cunchillos Ilarri -- El Analizador
Morfológico Ugarítico

            -- AUSFLUG --


            Do. 23.10
            10:00 István. S. Bátori -- Das Projekt UEDB
            10:30 Hansje Braam -- CALC Project (Central Asian Languages
Corpora)
            --
            11:30 Makasa Kasonde -- Computers and Didactics: Preparation
and Dissemination of
            Teaching Materials: The Case of Comparative Bantu.
            12:00 Harald Vajkonny -- From text to dictionary:
Computer-aided research on minority
            languages

            -- Mittagspause --

            14:30 Jost Gippert -- Multilingual Text Retrievel:
Requirements ans Solutions.
            15:00-17:30 Workshop: Full text retrieval -- WordCruncher


            Fr. 24.10
            10:00 Johann Tischler -- Dresdner Aktivitäten. Bericht über
laufende Projekte.
            10:30 Petr Zemánek -- ??
            --
            11:30 Petr Vavrouek -- Digitalisierung von
Keilschrifttafeln
            12:00 Svetlana Vyvenko -- Vernetzungsarten in einem
etymologischen Hypernetz

            -- Mittagspause --

            14:30-17:30 Workshop: UNICODE



            Bureau/Contacting Address:
                  Vergleichende Sprachwissenschaft
                  Georg­Voigt­Str. 6
                  Postfach 11 19 32
                  D­60054 Frankfurt.

                  Tel: +49­69­7982 3139
                  Fax: +49­69­7982 2873
                  email: martinez at em.uni-frankfurt.de
                  WWW: http://titus.uni-frankfurt.de

--
  Dr. Fco. Javier Martínez García ~ Vergleichende Sprachwissenschaft
  Universität Frankfurt  ~   Postfach 11 19 32  ~  D-60054 Frankfurt
  tel. +49- 69- 7982-2847;  (sekr.) -3139  ~ fax. +49- 69- 7982-2873



