+++
title = "133 a.murugaiyan"
date = "2020-09-17"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2020-September/053364.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2020-September/053364.html)

Dear Herman,
I think you can order "K. Rajan, Early writing System" at the 
Archaeological Society of Tamil Nadu. As I don't know the actual 
situation due to the COVID 19, you may directly place your order with 
Prof K. Rajan and here is his e-mail: rajanarchy at gmail.com
 I will check for Dilip Kumar and will get back to you.
Best regards
Murugaiyan

Le 17/09/2020 à 08:52, Tieken, H.J.H. via INDOLOGY a écrit:
>
> Dear List Members,
>
>
> This is a question I would have posted on the Classical Tamil List of 
> Jean-Luc Chevillard, but as far as I know the list is no longer active.
>
>
> (Tamil) books I used to order withDilip Kumar (216/10 R.K. Mutt Road 
> in Mylapore. I tried to contact him a few days ago, but so far I have 
> not received a reply. This morning I tried to phone him but the 
> numbers do no longerexist. What I would like to know if he has 
> discontinued his business or if there are other ways to contact him.
>
>
> If he has retired, where does one order Tamil books or books published 
> in Tamil Nadu nowadays?
>
> I am looking for K. Rajan, Early writing System, but all I find are 
> copies offered for USD 160, which is ridiculousfor a book of 2290 Rupees!
>
>
> Best, Herman
>
>
> Herman Tieken
> Stationsweg 58
> 2515 BP Den Haag
> The Netherlands
> 00 31 (0)70 2208127
> website: hermantieken.com <http://hermantieken.com/>
>
> _______________________________________________
> INDOLOGY mailing list
> INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
> indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing committee)
> http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)




-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20200917/34904fce/attachment.htm>
