+++
title = "90 Artur Karp"
date = "2016-04-25"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2016-April/043127.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2016-April/043127.html)

Dear Cor-respondents,

what worries me in these nice English and Hindi translations is that their
authors kind of omit a delicate problem - presented by the use of  a
*desiderative
*formation from the verb bhuj - bubhukṣā. Turner's CDIAL 9286 gives:
"desire to eat, hunger".

Might it not be, that the use of the desiderative points us not to simple
"hunger"? But, perhaps, to "[uncontrolled] craving for food"? To, even,
"gluttony" - as the result of that uncontrolled craving?

An idea of moderation there? Popularly: emotional eating vs. mindful
eating.

What I feel is present there is the warning against and the recommendation
not to succumb to emotions/temptations generated by the idea of food.


Best,

Artur



2016-04-25 2:40 GMT+02:00 Nityanand Misra <nmisra at gmail.com>:

> You may refer the Hindi translation by Gita Press too (see verses 88 to
> 92).
>
> On 25 April 2016 at 06:04, Nityanand Misra <nmisra at gmail.com> wrote:
>
>> Kisari Mohan Ganguly has already taken pity on all of us. Copy-pasted
>> from http://www.sacred-texts.com/hin/m14/m14090.htm
>>
>> O thou of excellent vows, thou practisest penances with great devotion.
>> Thy gifts have, therefore, gratified the deities highly, O best of
>> regenerate ones.
>>
>> Since thou hast made this gift, in a season of great difficulty, with a
>> pure heart, thou hast, by this act of thine, conquered Heaven.
>>
>> Hunger destroys one's wisdom and drives off one's righteous
>> understanding. One whose intelligence is overwhelmed by hunger casts off
>> all fortitude.
>>
>> He, therefore, that conquers hunger conquers Heaven without doubt. One's
>> righteousness is never destroyed as long as one cherishes the inclination
>> of making gifts.
>>
>>
>> 2016-04-24 22:43 GMT+05:30 Artur Karp <karp at uw.edu.pl>:
>>
>>> 14.093.063a śraddhayā parayā yas tvaṃ tapaś carasi suvrata
>>> 14.093.063c tasmād devās tavānena prītā dvijavarottama
>>> 14.093.064a sarvasvam etad yasmāt te tyaktaṃ śuddhena cetasā
>>> 14.093.064c kṛcchrakāle tataḥ svargo jito 'yaṃ tava karmaṇā
>>> 14.093.065a kṣudhā nirṇudati prajñāṃ dharmyāṃ buddhiṃ vyapohati
>>> 14.093.065c kṣudhāparigatajñāno dhṛtiṃ tyajati caiva ha
>>> 14.093.066a bubhukṣāṃ jayate yas tu sa svargaṃ jayate dhruvam
>>> 14.093.066c yadā dānarucir bhavati tadā dharmo na sīdati
>>>
>>> Could someone, please, please, give me precise translation of these
>>> verses?
>>>
>>> I do not have my dictionary at hand, but need the quotation very
>>> urgently. Could someone take pity on
>>>
>>> Artur Karp
>>>
>>> from far-away Poland?
>>>
>>> _______________________________________________
>>> INDOLOGY mailing list
>>> INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
>>> indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing
>>> committee)
>>> http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options
>>> or unsubscribe)
>>>
>>
>>
>>
>> --
>> Nityānanda Miśra
>> http://nmisra.googlepages.com
>>
>>
>
>
> --
> Nityānanda Miśra
> http://nmisra.googlepages.com
>
>


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20160425/14d01320/attachment.htm>
