+++
title = "112 y.r.rani at mail.utexas.edu"
date = "1996-03-11"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1996-March/004435.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/1996-March/004435.html)

I apologize that my message about "Gonda" languages vis-a-vis an Australian
connection, was sent to Indology twice.  (Sorry. . . . user error. . . with
the current discussion of abuses of Indology, this error was particularly
grievous. oops <g>;-)

I did find out more information to clarify my previous query:

"Most tribal groups in Central India speak Munda languages, which some
linguists classify as members of the Austro-Asiatic branch of the Austric
language group, which also includes the Malayo-Polynesian languages, which
range from Hawaii to New Zealand. (Father W.Schmidt first posed this
theory)."

My question is, is there reliable research on this linguistic connection or
is it a discredited theory?  Thanks for your help.


Re the ironic Temple Shoes message posted by:
> "Narayan S. Raja" <raja at galileo.IFA.Hawaii.Edu>

The vision of ghunghru strung around Nikes is certainly a remarkable
example of high fashion hybridity.

pag ghunghru bAndha MeerA nAchI re

visha kA pyala RAnA ne bhejA
PIvata MeerA hAsI re

Log kahe meerA bahi bavari
saha kahe kula nAsI re

pag ghunghru bAndha MeerA nAchI re

---------
kem chhe?

Yvette Rosser

I hope that this sort of query, from neophytes such as myself, are not
considered:
bhegA hUA vish.
Thanks.






