+++
title = "00 N. Ganesan"
date = "2000-11-01"
upstream_url = "https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2000-November/023537.html"

+++
[Archive link](https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/2000-November/023537.html)

Some Chola kings had their parents' ashes entombed in
a Shiva temple; they paid pAshupata, kALAmukha, mahaavrati
ascetics to take care of them. Called "paLLippaTai" temples.
I once gave many examples for paLLippatai temples.
Later small temples were built for these ascetics in some
cases. Are there any paLLippaTai-type temples for ascetics
in Karnataka? Does Lorenzen in his Kapalikas and Kalamukhas
refer to temples like these? My hunch is this must have been
prevalent in Karnataka because a Kannada botanist (B.G.L. Swamy)
theorises many Tamilnadu temples like Chidambaram, Palani, etc.,
were built on graves.

Is Madava Vidyaranya in 1340s rebuilding an earlier temple
dedicated to Vidyasankara?

Thanks,
N. Ganesan

>>It is interesting that in this mileau where the term Hindu as
>>a religious category gets adopted by Hindus themselves,
>>Madava Vidyaranya starts the first Sankaran matha and propagates a
>>a myth that it was founded by the phlosopher Sankara himself.
>>After seeing the production of dvaita sect founder's hagiography,
>>Madava, the minister at the early court of Vijayanagar, probably
>>started writing the Sankara digvijaya text,- also a first.

<<<
It seems to me that participation on this list serves no
purpose ultimately. The year 1235 for an inscription naming
Vidyasankara sticks out from a century before the earliest
evidence from Vijayanagara. I taxed the patience of list
members by discussing loads of information on this count,
under the Madhava-Vidyaranya-Sringeri thread, a couple of
months ago, where I argued for a more nuanced evaluation
of 13th and 14th century data.
>>>


_________________________________________________________________________
Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com.

Share information about yourself, create your own public profile at
http://profiles.msn.com.



